
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Alliance
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

 An Alliance is an agreement between two characters that they can call upon or join each other's wars via a character interaction, cannot start or join factions against each other, and cannot revoke titles if one is a vassal unless guilty of a crime. Declaring war on an ally will add -25 Popular Opinion for 3 years. If the requirements to create an alliance are no longer met it will be ended automatically but ongoing wars are not affected. Alliances can only be created between characters who are  Counts or above, whether landed or landless.

Two  Hegemons can't ally with each other.


Contents
1	Creating an alliance
2	Joining wars
3	Confederations
3.1	Elevating confederations
4	References
Creating an alliance
Alliances are created automatically between two characters who are married. They are also created automatically when two close family members of the two rulers are married or betrothed to each other. It is possible to see whether the marriage proposal will result in an alliance on the marriage proposal screen. Rulers who are at peace and not imprisoned may negotiate an alliance if they meet one of the following conditions:

The characters are close or extended family members of each other or the other's spouse. This is not possible between cousins.
The proposer has the Defensive Negotiations perk from the  Diplomacy lifestyle. This is not possible between vassals and their liege.
The characters are house heads and house relation is Default house relation level amity.png Faithful.
Parents or spouses of either character are Blood brother.png Blood Siblings.
In multiplayer, if a player has rejected an offer of alliance the other player cannot send another one with the same character.

The acceptance of an alliance is determined by the following:

Between -1000 and +100 depending on the military strength difference between the two characters
Between -120 and +120 depending on the title rank difference between the two characters
Between -100 and +25 depending on the opinion of the recipient
Between -100 and +50 depending on legitimacy
+25 if the characters are friends
+25 if the characters are lovers
+20 if one of the characters is the other's liege
+20 if the characters are close family members
+10 if the characters are part of the same house
+10 if the characters are extended family members
+10 if one of the characters is the other's primary heir
-100 if the characters were at war with each other within the last 12 years
-100 if the characters are rivals
-300 if the characters are nemeses
A proposed Alliance can be accepted by spending a Hook. Rulers whose government uses  Influence can also spend it to increase acceptance.

Khans of the Steppe	Available only with the Khans of the Steppe DLC enabled.
Blood Siblings automatically have an alliance with each other.

Joining wars
When a character is at war, each one of their allies will have the option to join the war via the Offer to Join War character interaction, which the targeted character will always accept. Alternatively, a character who is a war leader will have the option to ask their allies to join a war via the Call to War character interaction. The acceptance is determined by the character's  Opinion and Honor, modified by the following:

Source	Acceptance
Heir	always
Spouse	always
Defensive War	+50
Defensive War against their ally	-25
Offensive War against their ally	-50
Holy War against same faith	-50
Enemy is Friend	-50
Enemy is Best Friend	-100
Enemy is Lover	-100
Enemy is Soulmate	-100
Enemy is Heir	never
Enemy is Spouse	never
 Conqueror	never
There is no cost to call on an ally to assist in a defensive war. However, there is a  Prestige cost for offensive wars that is based on the ally's title rank:

Title rank	 Cost
 Count	75
 Duke	150
 King	350
 Emperor	750
 Hegemon	Free but only emperors and hegemons can ask
Allies declining to join an offensive war lose -20  Opinion for 5 years and  350 Fame. Allies declining to join a defensive war lose -50  Opinion for 25 years and  750 Fame.

If a war lasts at least 2 years and one of the allies has 0% War Contribution, it will lose -20 Opinion with the war leader and have to pay Gold or Prestige or promise to earn War Contribution within a year. Breaking the promise will result in losing a Level of Fame as well as -50 Opinion with the war leader.

Confederations
A confederation is an alliance of independent  Counts or  Dukes who automatically join each other's defensive wars but not offensive ones. Rulers in a confederation cannot attack or raid each other, cannot create new titles, and their authority laws are restricted to level 2. Confederation realms use the map color of the ruler who created the confederation.

Only  Tribal or  Nomadic rulers can create or join a confederation.  Nomadic rulers in a confederation gain -25%  County Fertility Consumption for 5 years and +30  County Fertility in the county where their Nomadic Capital is located. The modifier is removed if the ruler leaves the confederation. They also automatically leave the confederation if they migrate.

Creating a confederation requires taking the Call for Confederation decision, which will unlock the character interaction to offer a neighbor to create a confederation. Acceptance can be increased by spending  Prestige or  Herd or using a hook and will decrease once the confederation has 3 members.

If two rulers have the same culture the acceptance is increased and the confederation will be named after their culture. Otherwise they will be named after the founder's de jure duchy.

Elevating confederations
Once a confederation has at least 5 members, the member with the highest level of fame can unite the confederation into a single  Kingdom. In case of a tie in level of fame the option is not possible. The option to unify the confederation is available in both the confederation and decisions tabs. It also costs 150  Prestige and requires 25  Opinion or more with every member of the confederation. Unifying the confederation has the following effects:

The character gains a  Kingdom with the Confederation Elective title succession law. The title has no de jure lands until the confederation duchies are assimilated.
All other confederation members become vassals.
The character gains the Modifier travel safety positive.png First King of the Confederation modifier for 15 years, which gives the following effects:
 +1 Monthly Prestige
 +10 Defender Advantage
 +20% Legitimacy Gain
 -50% Men-at-Arms Recruitment Cost
 +20 Vassal Opinion
 +20% Herd Gain
 +50% Title Creation Cost
All counties belonging to confederation members gain the Modifier county fertility positive.png Confederate Lands modifier for 30 years, which gives the following effects:
 +5 Defender Advantage
 +0.3 Monthly Control
 +20% County Fertility Growth
All vassals gain the Modifier wit positive.png Vassal of the First King permanent modifier
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: Potentially outdated1.18WarCharacter
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
