
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Building
(Redirected from Buildings)
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.

Nav top.png
Crusader Kings III
Buildings
Economic buildings
Military buildings
Castle buildings
Temple buildings
Tribe buildings
Temple Citadel buildings
County buildings
Duchy buildings
Special buildings
Each Holding has access to a number of buildings. Regular buildings primarily focus on increasing taxes and levies, with some secondary effects such as increasing fortifications or increasing supply, and can be upgraded once the required level of Development is reached. Only one building may be constructed or upgraded at a time in any Holding. Buildings can be constructed by a Baron, their direct Liege, or any Liege higher in hierarchy, but can only be replaced by the character holding the County title.

Buildings can also be converted into another building at full price cost with the new building starting always as level 1. Conversions can only be initiated by the direct holder of the barony.


Contents
1	Construction
2	Types of buildings
2.1	Economic buildings
2.2	Military buildings
2.3	Fortification buildings
2.4	Temple buildings
2.5	Tribe buildings
2.6	County buildings
2.7	Duchy buildings
2.8	Special buildings
2.9	City buildings
2.10	Oath buildings
3	Terrain chart
4	References
Construction

A barony with all building slots unlocked
Each barony has a limited number of slots to construct buildings. Building slots cannot be lost.

1 slot is available to all baronies and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available to all county capitals and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available if the county's culture has the  Ledger innovation and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available if the county's culture has the  Magistrates innovation and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available if the county's culture has the  Guilds innovation and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available if the county's culture has the  Windmills innovation and can construct regular buildings.
1 slot is available to all duchy capitals and can construct duchy buildings.
1 slot is available to all baronies that are a holy site or can have a special building and can construct only the said special building. This slot can also be added by decisions or great projects that create a special building.
1 slot is available to the county capitals that have a Holding temple citadel.png Temple Citadel holding and can only construct Capital Temple Complex buildings via the great project with the same name.
The majority of buildings come in 8 levels and need the same innovation as the holding level they require. Certain traditions allow buildings to be constructed one holding level earlier.

Level 1 buildings cost 150  Gold
Level 2 buildings cost 250  Gold
Level 3 buildings cost 340  Gold and a level 2 holding
Level 4 buildings cost 500  Gold and a level 2 holding
Level 5 buildings cost 750  Gold and a level 3 holding
Level 6 buildings cost 1110  Gold and a level 3 holding
Level 7 buildings cost 1600  Gold and a level 4 holding
Level 8 buildings cost 2240  Gold and a level 4 holding
Types of buildings
Buildings come in several types:

Economic buildings
Main article: Economic buildings
These buildings improve prosperity of holdings.

Military buildings
Main article: Military buildings
These buildings increase levies and support stationed men-at-arms.

Fortification buildings
Main article: Fortification buildings
These buildings increase the defenseiveness of Castle holdings.

Temple buildings
Main article: Temple buildings
These buildings can only be built in Temple holdings.

Tribe buildings
Main article: Tribe buildings
These buildings can only be built in Tribe holdings.

County buildings
Main article: County buildings
These buildings can only be built in the capital of a county.

Duchy buildings
Main article: Duchy buildings
These buildings can only be built in the capital of a Duchy and only if the holder has the respective Duchy title.

Special buildings
Main article: Special buildings
These are unique buildings for certain holdings on the map, including holy sites, universities, and mines. Most of these also serve as point-of-interest that provide lifestyle experience for traveling characters.

City buildings
City buildings can only be constructed in City holdings. All of them require 3 years to build.

Type	Building	Monthly Tax	County effects	Description
Guilds
Building guild halls.png	Guild Halls	 +0.3	 +5% Monthly Development	The city provides all major guilds and burgher families with ample locale to organize and practice their crafts.
Carver's Guilds	 +0.5	 +10% Monthly Development	Carvers produce items out of wood or bone, such as frames, decorations or tools. They also carve heraldic shields, making the guild popular among the nobility.
Carpenter's Guilds	 +0.7	 +15% Monthly Development	Carpenters work with construction, primarily using timber as their material of choice. Their services are sought-after by both nobles and clergy, especially for the beautiful trim jointery they make for churches and estates.
Hunter's Guilds	 +0.9	 +20% Monthly Development	Hunters trade in meat and skins, with their services enabling both butchers and tanners to do their crafts. The finest skins naturally befall the most prestigious noble families.
Mason's Guilds	 +1.1	 +25% Monthly Development	Masons work with stone, both for construction and sculpture. Their skill is widely sought after, as their expertise is invaluable when constructing fortifications.
Tailor's Guilds	 +1.3	 +30% Monthly Development	Tailors wield needle, thread, and cloth as their weapons of choice. With their unparalleled skills, they produce beautiful garments for the nobility.
Glassworker's Guilds	 +1.5	 +35% Monthly Development	Glassworkers create fascinating items out of glass, everything from goblets to window panes. Having items made out of glass is very prestigious, making their services highly desirable.
Artisan's Guilds	 +1.7	 +40% Monthly Development	Artisans use a multitude of materials not only to produce works of art but also entirely new innovations. Their ingenuity and refined skill is drawing the attention of high nobles everywhere.
Oath buildings
DLC Coronations.png	Available only with the Coronations DLC enabled.
Oath buildings can only be constructed by rulers who swore an oath to provide for the people and only inside their domain. After the oath is completed new buildings of this type cannot be constructed until the next owner makes the same oath. Building or upgrading oath buildings takes 3 years and they do not have any holding requirements.

Building	Level	Effects	Requirements	Description
Martial Grants
Building oath warriors.png	Veterans' Smallholdings	
 +1 Number of Knights
 +10% Knight Effectiveness
 +10% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +5% Stationed Men-at-Arms Toughness
Activity coronation.png Support My Knights/Champions oath
 2+ knights with 10+ Prowess and a commander trait if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 3+ knights with 14+ Prowess and a commander trait if era is High Medieval or Late Medieval
Aristocratic fighters of long service have been given generous local plots, and interest in serving loyally has increased here accordingly.
Martial Estates	
 +1 Number of Knights
 +10% Knight Effectiveness
 +15% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +7% Stationed Men-at-Arms Toughness
 -1% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 3+ regiments of different type and size 4+ if era is Tribal
 4+ regiments of different type and size 4+ if era is Early Medieval
 5+ regiments of different type and size 6+ if era is High Medieval
 6+ regiments of different type and size 8+ if era is Late Medieval
Those of the aristocratic warrior class who do not die on the battlefield live in comfort, their granted holdings allowing them to recruit and arm themselves amply.
Village Fiefdoms	
 +1 Number of Knights
 +10% Knight Effectiveness
 +20% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +10% Stationed Men-at-Arms Toughness
 -3% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +0.1 Stationed Men-at-Arms Siege Progress
 4+ knights with 12+ Prowess and Martial if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 6+ knights with 14+ Prowess and Martial if era is High Medieval
 8+ knights with 16+ Prowess and Martial if era is Late Medieval
Many local villages are given over to knightly officers as personal holdings, allowing them to gather strength and wealth at the expense of the other classes.
Vast Martial Holdings	
 +1 Number of Knights
 +15% Knight Effectiveness
 +30% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +20% Stationed Men-at-Arms Toughness
 -5% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +0.2 Stationed Men-at-Arms Siege Progress
Modifier martial positive.png Barony has A Warrior's Oath Fulfilled modifier	A sizeable share of local taxes are delivered unto minor warrior aristocrats, the title-holders to field and settlement alike. Their mighty retinues, however, still serve.
Official Almshouses
Building oath poor.png	Charitable Customs	
 +0.05 Monthly Development
 +10 Popular Opinion
 -5% Holding Taxes
Activity coronation.png Provide for the Poor oath
 2+ Lowborn courtiers if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 4+ Lowborn courtiers if era is High Medieval
 6+ Lowborn courtiers if era is High Medieval
People with means are encouraged by authorities to give surplus food and wealth to the less fortunate, typically during holy days.
Poorhouses	
 +5% Development Growth
 +0.1 Monthly Development
 +15 Popular Opinion
 -10% Holding Taxes
 2+ vassals with the Compassionate trait if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 3+ vassals with the Compassionate trait if era is High Medieval or Late Medieval
The very poor, widows and the elderly are given modest boarding and some care in simple accommodations.
Benevolent Ministries	
 +15% Development Growth
 +0.2 Monthly Development
 +20 Popular Opinion
 -20% Holding Taxes
 Councilor vassal with the Compassionate trait	Almshouses and other civic needs that serve the wretched are well-serviced by official ministers of some means.
Charitable Institutions	
 +20% Development Growth
 +0.3 Monthly Development
 +30 Popular Opinion
 -30% Holding Taxes
Modifier stewardship positive.png Barony has A Poor's Oath Fulfilled modifier	All through the land, the needy want for nought. Gracious accommodations house would-be vagrants, hospitals tend to the sick and elderly, and generous allowances are made for poor peasants.
Religious Monuments
Building oath faithful.png	Wayside Shrines	
 +0.25 Monthly Tax
 +2% Monthly Piety
Activity coronation.png Provide for the Faithful oath
Yes County has the same faith
 2+ courtiers with 14+ Learning if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 3+ courtiers with 16+ Learning if era is High Medieval or Late Medieval
Small shelters by the roadsides house simple sacred icons.
Sacred Gates	
 +0.4 Monthly Tax
 +5% Monthly Piety
 +4 Plague Resistance
Yes County has the same faith
 3+ vassals with Devoted Servant level of devotion if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 6+ vassals with Devoted Servant level of devotion if era is High Medieval or Late Medieval
Above the entrances to and throughout this settlement, detailed religious artworks inspire awe and promise safe passage.
Temple Sanctuaries	
 +0.55 Monthly Tax
 +7% Monthly Piety
 +8 Plague Resistance
Yes County has the same faith
 2+ close family members with the Devoted trait if era is Tribal or Early Medieval
 4+ close family members with the Devoted trait if era is High Medieval or Late Medieval
The local temple complexes have been expanded with vaulted gardens, serene places which house freshwater wells.
Monumental Squares	
 +0.7 Monthly Tax
 +10% Monthly Piety
 +0.1 Monthly Piety
 +12 Plague Resistance
 +4 Clergy Opinion
Modifier piety positive.png Barony has A Faithful's Oath Fulfilled modifier	Great investment has gone into massive central squares that abound with religious artwork, are kept bare of excess waste and usury, and supply water to locals.
Terrain chart

Hillside Grazing Lands can only be constructed in the yellow region. Warrior Lodges can only be constructed in the light pink region.
Elephantry buildings can only be constructed in India or South East Asia.

Building	 Desert	 Desert Mountains	 Drylands	 Farmlands	 Floodplains	 Forest	 Hills	 Jungle	 Mountains	 Oasis	 Plains	 Steppe	 Taiga	 Wetlands
Building camel farms.png Camelry	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No
Building pastures.png Cattle Pastures	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No
Building plantations.png Desert Agriculture	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No
Building elephant pens.png Elephantry	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No
Building cereal fields.png Farms & Fields	No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No
Building logging camps.png Forestry	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No
Building hill farms.png Hill Farms	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	No
Building horse pastures.png Horse Herds	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No
Building hunting grounds.png Hunting Grounds	No	No	Yes	No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	No	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Building farm estates.png Manor Houses	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No
Building orchards.png Orchards	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No
Building outposts.png Outposts	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	Yes
Building quarries.png Quarries	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No
Building regimental grounds.png Regimental Grounds	No	No	No	Yes	Yes	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No
Building peat quarries.png Wetland Farms	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes
Building hillside grazing.png Hillside Grazing Lands	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No
Building warrior lodges.png Warrior Lodges	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	Yes	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No
References


Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19RealmBuildings
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
