
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Casus belli
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.

A casus belli, sometimes abbreviated CB and meaning "cause for war" in Latin, represents a justification for war that is recognized as legitimate by other characters. A ruler must have a valid casus belli in order to be able to declare war upon another ruler, can only gain from a war what the casus belli specifies, and the war is ended if the requirements for its casus belli are no longer met.

Each casus belli will cost either  Prestige or  Piety. If the attacker can't pay the cost, it can pay with a level of fame or devotion instead. Declaring war against a character's head of faith costs 500  Piety if the head of faith is spiritual and 100  Piety if they are temporal. Declaring war against a theocracy of the same faith additionally costs 100  Piety, stacking with the cost for attacking the head of faith. Casus belli costs can be removed via one of the game rules.

The war target is the map region which is targeted by a casus belli. If the casus belli does not target a map region then the defender's realm capital becomes the war target. The attacking side gains more war score by occupying holdings located in the war target region. After a grace period, the defender will passively gain war score by holding all counties in the war target region.


Contents
1	Independence wars
2	Claims wars
3	Conquest wars
3.1	Struggle Clash
3.2	Adventurer Invasion wars
3.3	Other Conquest CBs
4	De Jure wars
5	Subjugate wars
5.1	Forced Vassalization
6	Holy wars
7	Artifact wars
8	Bring Under Tribute
8.1	Retaliation War
9	Eradicate Rival House
10	Excommunication War
11	Raid for Captives
12	Rescue House Members
13	Unify The House
14	Migrate to Pannonia
15	Raid wars
16	Varangian Adventure
17	Install Loyalist
18	Humiliation War
19	Raze Capital Temple Complex
20	Plunder for Contribution
21	Enforce Administrative Integration
22	Consolidate Land Under Heaven
23	Decision wars
24	References
Independence wars
Independence wars can be declared directly by  Feudal,  Clan,  Tribal,  Wanua,  Nomadic,  Mandala or  Sōryō subjects, which costs 100  Prestige against a suzerain and 500  Prestige against a liege. Subjects with  Tribal government pay only half of the cost. Independence wars are also declared between all faction members and the liege if the liege refuses the ultimatum of an Independence faction. During an independence war the attacker is still considered a subject of the defender but does not provide them with any income.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker becomes independent.
If the war ends by white peace, the attacker remains a subject. If they are a tributary their obligations are reduced.
If the war ends by surrender, the attacker remains a subject. If they are a vassal the defender imprisons them and receives a title revocation reason. If they are a tributary their obligations and increased and the defender gains 20  Dread.
Claims wars
The Claims casus belli can only be used against rulers holding a title either you or one of your vassals or courtiers has a claim on. Guests must be invited to join your court (and become courtiers) in order to press their claim. Initially only one claimed title can be selected but multiple titles can be chosen with the  Divine Right innovation or the second Heroic bloodline legacy track.png Heroic Bloodline legacy for personal claims and  Rightful Ownership innovation for vassal or courtier claims. Own vassals cannot be targeted with this casus belli.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the claimant will gain the target titles. If they're a vassal or courtier, their liege will gain a  weak hook on them and if they're a courtier they will become a vassal of their liege. If the claimant's new title rank is equal or higher than their liege's they will become independent.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps the target titles. Any  Unpressed Claim contested in the war become  Pressed Claim.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps the target title and the claims used for the casus belli are lost.
Declaring war over claims requires the following amount of  Prestige:

Title rank	Own claim	Dynasty member's claim	Other's claim
 County	100	250	500
 Duchy	200	500	1000
 Kingdom	400	1000	2000
 Empire	800	3000	6000
The cost of using a character's own claims is affected by the following:

-50% if both characters are part of the same dynasty
-50% if the defender is a child while the attacker is not
-25% if the Claim is a  Pressed Claim
-25% if both characters have the same faith and the defender's gender is not favored by the View on Gender doctrine while the attacker's gender is
+25% if both characters have the same faith and the defender's gender is favored by the View on Gender doctrine while the attacker's gender isn't
+25% if the characters have a different faith
+25% if the defender's primary title rank is lower than the attacker's
+50% if the attacker is a child while the defender is not
+1000% if the attacker is an  Adventurer
The cost of using another character's claims is affected by the following:

+25% if the claimant is part of a different house from the same dynasty
+50% if the claimant is part of a different dynasty
+100% if the claimant has a different religion
Conquest wars
If the attacked ruler has the same faith the casus belli costs  Piety. If the attacked ruler has a different faith the casus belli costs  Prestige.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker will gain the target title and fame equal to the war contribution share.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps the target title and the attacker loses  75-100 prestige.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps the target title, while the attacker pays the defender  gold and gains +25 faction discontent.
War target	Required level of fame	Cost	 War contribution share	Limit	Requirements (any)
 County	 Established	
2.5 per realm size if Administrative
5 per realm size if Tribal or Wanua
10 per realm size if Clan or Feudal
75	Yes Unlimited	
 Clan government
 Tribal government
 Administrative government
 Nomadic government
 Sōryō government
 Wanua government
Yes Faith is unreformed
Yes Faith has the Warmonger tenet
Yes Faith has the Pursuit of Power tenet
Yes Culture has the Quarrelsome tradition
 Duchy	Icon prestige 03.png Illustrious	
6 per realm size if Administrative
10 per realm size if Tribal or Wanua
20 per realm size if Clan or Feudal
150	Yes Unlimited	
 Clan government
 Tribal government
 Nomadic government
 Wanua government
Yes Faith is unreformed
Yes Faith has the Warmonger tenet
Yes Faith has the Pursuit of Power tenet
Yes Culture has the Quarrelsome tradition
Icon game concept frontier administration.png Frontier vassal and duchy is adjacent by land
Icon game concept naval administration.png Naval vassal and duchy is adjacent by sea
Modifier stewardship positive.png House has the Rulers of the Black Sea modifier
 Kingdom	Icon prestige 04.png Exalted Among Men	
100 if owns the Mongol Empire
1000 if Tribal or Wanua
2000 if Clan, Feudal or Administrative
350	
No Cannot be used if house unity is Friendly or Harmonious
 Once per lifetime if Tribal or house unity is Impassive
 10 year cooldown if house unity is Competitive
Yes Unlimited if house unity is Antagonistic
Yes Unlimited if tribal and owning the Mongol Empire
Yes Unlimited if Destruction Mandala Aspect is at highest level
 Clan government
 Tribal government
 Nomadic government
 Wanua government
Yes Faith is unreformed
Yes Faith has the Warmonger tenet
Yes Faith has the Pursuit of Power tenet
 Empire	 Established	200	350	Yes Unlimited	
 Administrative Roman Empire and conquered one of the following counties:
 Hegemony	 Established	2000	350	Yes Unlimited	Yes Involved in the Dynastic Cycle situation and target is Hegemony of China
Struggle Clash
DLC Fate of Iberia.png	Available only with the Fate of Iberia DLC enabled.
Struggle Clash is a casus belli available to rulers who are involved in the Iberian Struggle or whose house achieved the Dominance ending for the struggle. It can target any county of the defender that borders the attacker and is located in the struggle region. How much it costs and how many counties can it target depends on the struggle phase.

Struggle phase	War targets	Cost
Struggle iberia phase opportunity.png Opportunity	Any	150 per county
Struggle iberia phase hostility.png Hostility	Any	75 per county
Struggle iberia phase conciliation.png Conciliation
Struggle iberia phase compromise.png Compromise	One	350 per county
Adventurer Invasion wars
Roads to Power	Available only with the Roads to Power DLC enabled.
Adventurer Invasion CBs are only available to adventurers and can only target rulers. They cost an additional 250  Piety if the defender has the same faith. If the adventurer has a sponsor they can only pick a war target of lower rank than the sponsor's primary title. If the war ends by enforcing demands the adventurer will also change their government to the government of the defeated war leader and gain  Gold that scales with their camp size.

War target	Required level of fame	Cost
 County	 Established	 500 Prestige
 Duchy	Icon prestige 03.png Illustrious	 2000 Prestige
 Kingdom	Icon prestige 04.png Exalted Among Men	 5000 Prestige
 Empire	Icon prestige 05.png The Living Legend	 10000 Prestige
 Hegemony	No Not possible	No Not possible
Other Conquest CBs
Ducal Conquest of County is available to rulers who have the Ducal Conquest lifestyle perk and can only be used against rulers who own a county in the same uncreated duchy. It costs 350  Prestige if the defender's rank is  Count and 750  Prestige if the defender's rank is higher.
Laudably Conquer County is available to rulers whose house has the Modifier prestige positive.png Laudabiliter modifier and can target any county in Ireland. It costs 50  Prestige if the defender has a different faith and 25  Piety if the defender has the same faith.
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Iberian Reclamation is available to rulers who are involved in the Iberian Struggle against those who do not while the Iberian Struggle is in the Struggle iberia phase conciliation.png Conciliation or Struggle iberia phase compromise.png Compromise phase. It can target one duchy. It has a base cost of 75, increased by 25 per county.
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Mediterranean Conquest for County is available to rulers whose house has the Modifier compass positive.png Controlling the Mediterranean modifier. It can target any county on the coast of the Mediterranean and costs 300  Prestige.
Roads to Power Seize Peripheral Duchy is available to rulers who don't have  Administrative government against kings and above who do. It can only target a duchy that is not de jure part of their primary title. If the target is in a civil war, all duchies, excluding the target capital duchy, can be targeted.
Khans of the Steppe Overrun Duchy is available to independent rulers with Nomad authority 2.png Limited or better dominance law who have at least the  Exalted Among Men level of fame and can target any duchy. The duchy's de jure capital will become the attacker's realm capital if controlled, otherwise the county with the highest  Development will be picked. The new capital will convert to the attacker's faith and culture, The attacker's government will change to match the defender's. All of the attacker's tributaries will become independent. If the war results in the defender's title rank becoming lower, all its previous vassals of equal or higher title rank will become independent. Every conquered county will lose 1-4  Development.
Khans of the Steppe Overrun Kingdom is available to independent rulers with Nomad authority 3.png High or better dominance law who have at least the  Exalted Among Men level of fame and can target any kingdom. The kingdom's de jure capital will become the attacker's realm capital if controlled, otherwise the county with the highest  Development will be picked. The new capital will convert to the attacker's faith and culture, The attacker's government will change to match the defender's. All of the attacker's tributaries will become independent. If the war results in the defender's title rank becoming lower, all its previous vassals of equal or higher title rank will become independent. Every conquered county will lose 1-4  Development.
Khans of the Steppe Greatest of Khans' Onslaught is available during the Story icon bow steppe.png The Greatest of Khans story, has no cost and targets all of the target's titles. Upon victory the attacker will gain an army of special soldiers that scales with the defender's realm and depends on their culture and all conquered counties will lose 20  Control. If the defender had  Nomadic government it pays the attacker  Herd, otherwise it pays  Gold.
DLC All Under Heaven.png Seize Hegemonic County is available to the hegemon of China and their Grand Marshal while it is in the Dynastic cycle phase expansion.png Expansion or Dynastic cycle phase conquest.png Conquest dynastic cycle and can target any adjacent county.
DLC All Under Heaven.png Seize Hegemonic Duchy is available to the hegemon of China and their Grand Marshal while it is in the Dynastic cycle phase expansion.png Expansion or Dynastic cycle phase conquest.png Conquest dynastic cycle and can target any adjacent duchy.
DLC All Under Heaven.png Imperial County Pacification is available to rulers with  Ritsuryō government while the Imperial Policy law is set to Imperial Pacification. It can target any county located in Japan and has a base cost of 190.
DLC All Under Heaven.png Grand Campaign can only be declared via the Dynasty's Grand Campaign great project. If war ends by enforcing demands the Hegemon of China will gain 200 Mandate legitimacy.png Legitimacy and every attacking ruler will gain 100  Movement Power. If the war ends by status quo or surrender every attacking ruler will lose 100  Movement Power.
De Jure wars
Where a title belongs to another title de jure (a county to a duchy, duchy to a kingdom etc.), the holder of the higher title has a de jure CB towards the character who holds the lower title if they're not already a vassal. All de jure CBs cost  100 prestige per county in the war target title and have a war contribution share of  300 prestige.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker will gain the target title. If they're a vassal, their liege will gain a  weak hook on them.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps the target title.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps the target title and the attacker pays  gold to the defender.
The casus belli requires the  and can only target one  County or  Duchy. If the  Divine Right innovation is also discovered it can target all the titles at once.

The owner of the Roman Empire title can declare De Jure wars on any duchy that was part of the ancient Roman Empire, even if the new Roman Empire does not include it in its de jure territory. This war has no cost.

DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
In realms with  Ritsuryō government if the Imperial Policy law is set to Defense Mobilization all vassals will unlock the Imperial Reconquest of Japan casus belli, which will target every country that is de jure part of Empire of Japan.

Subjugate wars
The Subjugate casus belli can only be used on independent neighbors and requires one of the following:

 Tribal or  Wanua government, Icon prestige 02.png Distinguished level of fame and the target has  Tribal or  Wanua government.
Eastern religion, Icon prestige 04.png Exalted among Men level of fame and the target follows an Eastern religion.
Temporal head of faith, Devoted Servant level of devotion and the target shares the attacker's faith and costs an additional  1000 piety.
Character took the Demand Local Submission decision.
Wars of subjugation require the following amount of  Prestige:

Title rank	Not  Tribal or  Wanua	 Tribal or  Wanua
 County	1000	500
 Duchy	1000	500
 Kingdom	1500	750
 Empire	2500	1250
If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker becomes the defender's liege. If the defender had a primary title of higher rank than the attacker, the attacker takes it.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender remains independent.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender remains independent and the attacker gains +25 faction discontent.
Forced Vassalization
The Forced Vassalization casus belli can only target rulers whose realm has 3 counties, plus 2 counties for each of the following innovations that the attacker's culture has: Casus Belli, Chronicle Writing, Divine Right, and Rightful Ownership. It cannot be used on heads of faith. Using it requires one of the following:

Node diplomacy.png Forced Vassalization lifestyle perk
 Conqueror trait
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Iberian Struggle which is in the Hostility phase and both characters are involved
Holy wars
Holy War CBs will cause a holy war instead of a regular one. It can only target a ruler whose faith is considered Hostile or Evil and requires the Faith to be organized and to not have the Pacifism or Dharmic Pacifism tenets. The CBs cost  Piety.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker will gain all titles held by rulers of Hostile or Evil faith and vassalize all other rulers in the war target region. The defender gains twice the  fervor the attacker paid.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps all their titles and the attacker loses 50  Piety.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps all their titles, while the attacker pays  gold and gains +25 faction discontent and  −15 vassal opinion for 5 years.
War target	Required level of devotion	 Fervor cost	 Cost (without Armed Pilgrimages tenet)	 Cost (with Armed Pilgrimages tenet)	 War contribution share	 Once per lifetime
 County	Dutiful	1	100	80	100	No
 Duchy	Faithful	2	200	160	200	No
 Kingdom	Paragon of Virtue	5	750	600	500	Yes
Artifact wars
Artifact wars can only be declared on characters who own either an artifact with a claim on it or a holy relic and they have a different religion. The CBs cost 150  Prestige.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker gains all valid artifacts and the defender gains claims on all lost artifacts.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps all artifacts.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps all artifacts and the attacker loses all claims on defender's artifacts and pays  gold to the defender.
Bring Under Tribute
Bring Under Tribute is a casus belli available to all independent rulers against neighbors of lower or equal title rank. Rulers who don't have  Nomadic government also require the second level of authority laws. The casus belli costs between 25 and 300  Prestige if not  Mandala and  Piety if  Mandala, with the exact cost depending on the size of the target's realm.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the defender becomes a tributary with the maximum level of obligations.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender remains independent.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender remains independent and the attacker gains +25 faction discontent.
Retaliation War
Khans of the Steppe	Available only with the Khans of the Steppe DLC enabled.
The Retaliation War casus belli is available to suzerains if a nomad migrated to the lands of one of their tributaries or an adventurer became a nomad there and they refused to become a tributary. Upon victory the defender also pays a scaled amount of  Herd.

Eradicate Rival House
Eradicate Rival House is a casus belli available between characters whose houses have Default house relation level feud.png Feuding house relations. It cannot be used if either character is the other's liege or vassal. It has a base cost of 85  Prestige. The character who wins the war will gain 750  Prestige and take all of the loser's titles.

If the loser was an AI ruler the winner will gain 20  Dread and their house will gain the Rival House Eradicated permanent modifier. The loser, their spouse and every house member in their court except the heir will be killed and the heir and every house member outside the court will have -50  Opinion of the winner. If the loser had a vassal with a title rank of  Count or higher the heir will join the court of the valid vassal with the highest  Opinion of the loser. Otherwise they will become an adventurer if the Roads to Power Roads to Power DLC is installed and a landless character if the DLC is not installed.

If the loser is a human player their house will gain the House Eradicated permanent modifier and the loser will have the option to attempt an  Intrigue challenge. If successful everyone will survive but their house will gain the House Eradicated permanent modifier. If they have a domicile and had a vassal with a title rank of  Count or higher the domicile will be moved to the capital of the valid vassal with the highest  Opinion. Otherwise they will become an adventurer if the Roads to Power Roads to Power DLC is installed and a landless character if the DLC is not installed.

Excommunication War
Excommunication War is a casus belli available against all rulers who have the  Excommunicated trait and share the same faith.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the defender is deposed. Attacker gains 20  Opinion with the head of faith.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps their titles. Attacker loses 50  Piety.
If the war ends by surrender, defender gains 150  Piety and loses the  Excommunicated trait. Attacker loses 50  Piety and 20  Opinion with the head of faith.
Raid for Captives
Raid for Captives is a casus belli available to rulers whose faith has the Human Sacrifice tenet. It costs 100  Piety if the faith does not have the Armed Pilgrimages tenet and 80 if it does. The cost is also reduced by half if the attacker has Tribal government.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker imprisons 3–5 of the defender's courtiers.
If the war ends by white peace, the attacker does not get any prisoners.
If the war ends by surrender, the attacker does not get any prisoners and if the defender's faith has the Human Sacrifice tenet they imprison 3–5 of the attacker's courtiers.
Rescue House Members
Rescue House Members is a casus belli available to house heads who meet one of the following requirements:

Has the Bound by Blood lifestyle perk. The casus belli will cost 75  Prestige.
Has Clan government and house unity is House unity friendly.png Friendly or House unity harmonious.png Harmonious. The casus belli will cost  Prestige that scales with the house unity value.
The casus belli can target any ruler who imprisoned a house member.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker releases any imprisoned house member of the defender. If the attacker has Clan government their house will gain 4 house unity per freed house member, up to 20.
If the war ends by white peace, the house members remain imprisoned.
If the war ends by surrender, the house members remain imprisoned and the attacker loses 350  Prestige.
It should be noted that if the captured house members are heirs to the house head the warscore will start swung towards the defender.

Unify The House
Unify The House is a casus belli available to house heads who meet one of the following requirements:

Has the Bound by Blood lifestyle perk. The casus belli will costs 150  Prestige per targeted house member.
Has Clan government and house unity is House unity friendly.png Friendly or House unity harmonious.png Harmonious. The casus belli will cost  Prestige that scales with the house unity value and the number of targeted house members.
The casus belli can target any ruler who is not a house member and has any  Duke or  Emperor vassal who is.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, all of the defender's vassals who are part of the attacker's house will become the attacker's vassals. If the attacker has Clan government their house will gain 4 house unity.
If the war ends by white peace, the house members remain vassals of the defender.
If the war ends by surrender, the house members remain vassals of the defender and the attacker loses 350  Prestige. If the attacker has Clan government their house will lose 4 house unity.
Migrate to Pannonia
Migrate to Pannonia is a unique casus belli with special mechanics that can only be used once per game by characters of Táltosist faith who make the Prepare to Cross the Carpathians decision against characters in the Pannonian Basin region. If the Hungarian Migration game rule is set to Immediate, the game will start with the casus belli being used by Grand Prince Álmos Ügyekfi of the Mogyër Confederation against King Boris of Bulgaria.

If the war ends in white peace, the defender keeps his or her titles. If it ends in surrender the attacker's factions will also gain discontent. If the war ends by enforcing demands however it will have the following effects:

Attacker gains all titles held by the defender in the Pannonian Basin region.
Attacker gains the Kingdom of Hungary title, which replaces Kingdom of Pannonia.
Any other kingdom title held by the attacker is destroyed.
All held titles that are not within the de jure Kingdom of Hungary are given to new randomly generated characters of their culture and religion.
All vassals that are not within the de jure Kingdom of Hungary become independent.
All controlled counties convert to Mogyër culture and Táltosist faith.
All previously controlled counties convert to Pecheneg culture.
When war is declared with this casus belli, the following army will be spawned, which will persist for as long as the attacking character lives or until destroyed or disbanded:

Years	 Levies	Unit horse archers.png Horse Archers
867–889	3000	2000
890–904	5000	3000
905+	6000	4000
Raid wars
DLC Fate of Iberia.pngRoads to Power	Available only with the Fate of Iberia DLC or the Roads to Power DLC enabled.
Raid CBs can only be used on neighbors and requires one of the following:

Both characters are Involved in the Iberian Struggle and the struggle is in the Struggle iberia phase opportunity.png Opportunity or Struggle iberia phase hostility.png Hostility phase. The CB costs 75  Prestige and if the target has the same faith it costs an additional 50  Piety.
If a vassal with Administrative government has been at peace for long enough there is a chance they will receive an event to unlock it. The CB costs 30  Influence.
The war target is always a county bordering the attacker's realm.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker will gain 5  Gold per  Development and 25  Gold per constructed building in the war target. The war target will lose 1  Development and 25  Control and receive -50% taxes and construction time and -10% development for 5 years and there is a 25% chance that a random building will be destroyed.
If the war ends by white peace, the war target is unaffected.
If the war ends by surrender, the war target is unaffected and the attacker pays the defender  gold.
Varangian Adventure
DLC Northern Lords.png	Available only with the Northern Lords DLC enabled.
Varangian Adventure is a unique casus belli with special mechanics that can only be used during the Tribal Era on counties and duchies owned by characters from a different culture group and requires the  Varangian Adventurers innovation. It costs  1000 prestige. It can be used multiple times but each use will cost more  than the previous one. It cannot be used by kings or above or if there's another ongoing war.

If the war ends in white peace, the defender keeps his or her titles. If it ends in surrender, the attacker must also pay  gold and  prestige to the defender. If the war ends by enforcing demands however it will have the following effects:

All titles held by the attacker are destroyed or given to other characters.
All vassals are given independence.
Attacker gains the target title and all titles that are de jure part of it.
Attacker gains the  Adventurer trait.
Attacker gains  200 gold.
If the target title was a county and its de jure duchy does not exist or is part of the defender's realm, the duchy is given to the attacker.
If the target title was feudal, the attacker's Government changes to Feudal.
When war is declared using this casus belli for the first time, it will spawn for the duration of the war the following army based on the number of owned counties of the same faith and culture in the region of Mainland Scandinavia:

 Counties	Unit varangian veterans.png Varangian Veterans	Unit bondi.png Bondi	Unit vigmen.png Vigmen	Unit danish huskarls.png Huscarls
1	100	0	0	0
2	300	0	0	0
3	300	200	0	0
4	300	400	0	0
5	300	400	200	0
6	300	400	400	0
7	300	400	600	0
8	300	400	800	0
9	300	400	800	200
10	300	400	800	400
The army will always include  100 levies. If the character's dynasty has the first Adventure legacy track.png Adventure legacy, it will gain an additional  100 levies, Unit varangian veterans.png 400 Varangian Veterans, Unit bondi.png 100 Bondi and Unit vigmen.png 400 Vigmen.

AI rulers will only use this casus belli if all their held titles are located in the Mainland Scandinavia region. If the Scandinavian Adventurers game rule is not set to Apocalyptic then they also require the  Ambitious trait, as well as at least two of the following traits:  Adventurer,  Arrogant,  Brave,  Greedy.

Install Loyalist
DLC Legacy of Persia.png	Available only with the Legacy of Persia DLC enabled.
Install Loyalist is a casus belli available while the Iranian Intermezzo is in the Struggle persia phase unrest.png Unrest struggle phase. It is available to rulers with the  Supporter of Caliphal Authority trait and can only be used against rulers with the  Detractor of the Caliphate trait who have at least one vassal with the  Supporter of Caliphal Authority trait. It costs 250  Piety.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, a vassal of the defender with the  Supporter of Caliphal Authority trait takes the defender's primary title. Attacker gains 100  Piety and 65  Opinion with the vassal for 30 years and they become allied. If the attacker was the caliph or Abbasid emperor they will gain a  Strong Hook on the vassal.
If the war ends by white peace, the defender keeps their primary title.
If the war ends by surrender, the defender keeps their primary title and the attacker gains -20% Level of Fame Impact and -10 Vassal Opinion for 10 years.
Humiliation War
Khans of the Steppe	Available only with the Khans of the Steppe DLC enabled.
Humiliation War is a casus belli available between characters with  Nomadic government. It can only be used against characters who have a higher Dominance law or are a Icon gurkhan.png Gurkhan but cannot be used if their Dominance law is at the highest level. It costs 75  Prestige.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the defender's Domination law is reduced by one level, all border counties owned by the defender or its vassals is given to  Herder characters, and the defender pays the attacker scaled  Herd but they will be Disobedient.png Disobedient for 5 years.
If the war ends by white peace, nothing happens.
If the war ends by surrender, the attacker pays the defender  gold.
Raze Capital Temple Complex
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Raze Capital Temple Complex is a casus belli available between rulers with  Mandala government. It has a base cost of 100  Piety.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the defender's Capital Temple Complex building is ruined and must be repaired.
If the war ends by white peace, nothing happens.
If the war ends by surrender, the attacker's Capital Temple Complex building is ruined and must be repaired.
Plunder for Contribution
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Plunder for Contribution is a casus belli available to house heads with the Aspect of destruction small.png Destruction Mandala Aspect who started a great project. It can only target rulers who also have  Mandala government. It has a base cost of 100  Piety.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the defender is forced to contribute to the attacker's great project.
If the war ends by white peace, nothing happens.
If the war ends by surrender, nothing happens but the attacker will lose  Devotion if their Decree law is set to Mandala decree prosperity.png Prosperity or Mandala decree expansion.png Expansion.
Enforce Administrative Integration
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Enforce Administrative Integration is a casus belli available to vassals with  Ritsuryō government against fellow vassals with  Sōryō govenment. It has a base cost of 180  Prestige.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker gains 120  Influence and 25  Opinion with their liege and the liege takes the loser's titles.
If the war ends by white peace or surrender, nothing happens.
Consolidate Land Under Heaven
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Consolidate Land Under Heaven is a casus belli available to characters involved in the Dynastic Cycle while it is in the File:Dynastic cycle phase tension.png Tension era. It can only be used against neighbor rulers who own territory that is de jure part of Hegemony of China. It costs 100  Piety if the target has the same faith and 150  Prestige if the target has a different faith.

If the war ends by enforcing demands, the attacker takes all of the defender's title that are equal or higher than the attacker's primary title and vassalizes all vassals of the defender that have their capital in the de jure territory of Hegemony of China.
If the war ends by white peace, nothing happens.
If the war ends by surrender, the attacker pays the defender  Gold and loses 350  Prestige.
Decision wars
Decisions wars cannot be started by declaring was and instead must be started using a decision. Decision wars cannot end in white peace.

Holy Roman-Byzantine Imperial War of Legitimacy is a war between the Holy Roman Empire and the Byzantine Empire that can be started using the Dismantle Greek Pretenders or Dismantle German Pretenders decisions. If the attacker surrenders they must pay a massive amount of  Gold to the defender. If the attacker enforces demands the defender's primary title is destroyed and all its land becomes de jure part of the attacker's title.
Khans of the Steppe Domination Wars is a war between an attacker and all rulers who are de jure part of a title that can be started using the Dominate Title decision. If the attacker enforces demands it gains the title selected for the decision and all defenders become tributaries who are  Obedient.
Khans of the Steppe Great War of Defiance is a war between an emperor and most rulers in the region joined by at least one non-nomad ruler that can be started using the Become the Greatest of All Khans decision. If the attacker surrenders it loses 90% of its  Herd,  Gold and  Prestige, 500  Legitimacy a level of fame and the Dreams of the Supreme Destiny modifier if it has is, loses all domain counties to herders, all subjects become independent, its Dominance law is reduced to Nomad authority 2.png Limited, and the defender war leader imprisons them. If the attacker enforces demands it gains the  Greatest of Khans trait, 1500  Prestige, 500  Legitimacy, a level of fame, its primary title is replaced by the Mongol Empire, its dynasty gains the  The Golden Lineage permanent modifier, every defender becomes a vassal, every vassal becomes  Obedient for 10 years, every truce is ended, a seletion of nicknames depending on faith and culture will be offered, and an army of 19200  Horde Riders, 4200 Unit steppe raiders.png Steppe Riders, 900 Unit nomad lancers.png, 600  Horse Archers, 600 Unit heavy horse archers.png Heavy Horse Archers, 240 of the most powerful siege weapon available to the culture and 4800 of a culture-specific regiment. If the DLC Legends of the Dead.png Legends of the Dead DLC is installed they also gain the The Greatest of Khans legend seed.
DLC All Under Heaven.png War to Establish Sōryō Administration is a war between the emperor of Japan and the members of the other blocs that can be started using the Establish Sōryō Administration decision. If the attacker surrenders the most powerful of the defenders takes the Empire of Japan title and all of the attacker's vassals. If the attacker enforces demands they will change government to  Sōryō and all defenders are imprisoned. If the attacker was part of a bloc all its members will also change government to  Sōryō.
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19Pages with broken file linksWar
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
