
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Character
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.


A custom character
A character refers to any person, historical or generated, that is represented personally in Crusader Kings III. Every single character is an individual, living entity that will act individually and has the potential to change history. Characters can be either noble or lowborn, and landed or unlanded.

Noble characters are members of a dynasty.
Lowborn characters are not members of a dynasty. If they are landed with a playable government title they will become noble and found a dynasty.
Landed characters own at least one holding.
Unlanded characters do not own any holdings; a character who Leases holdings (e.g. a Realm Priest) is considered an unlanded character.
All Characters are part of a certain Religion and Culture, and may have a variety of Attributes, Traits, Modifiers and Resources that further shape each individual. Some may even attempt to interact with others through Schemes.

If they are landed, they will also have Titles, Council (if they are at least a Count), a specific Government, a Lifestyle and a Court.


Contents
1	Appearance
2	Sexual Orientation
3	Opinion
4	Opinion
4.1	General
4.2	Attraction
4.3	Same Dynasty
4.3.1	Virtue & Sins
4.3.2	Faith Hostility
4.4	Relations
4.5	Tyranny
5	Diplomatic range
6	Nicknames
7	AI Personality
7.1	Economic Archetype
8	Legends
8.1	Historical legend seeds
8.1.1	Legitimizing historical seeds
8.2	Decision legend seeds
Appearance

The barbershop
Every character's physical appearance is internally determined by a DNA system, which defines how they look: body proportions, facial features, skin pigmentation, height, and hair color are all stored as DNA. It can be directly edited with the Ruler Designer. DNA is stored as dominant and recessive genes and passed on to a character's children, affecting their appearance. The appearance is further determined by age, prowess, weight, and congenital or disease traits.

A character's outfit depends on their culture, title rank, social status, and whether they are noble or lowborn.

A player can use the Barbershop to customize the hair and outfit of their character as well as those of any character inside their realm. This will override any automatic appearance.

Sexual Orientation
A character's sexual orientation determines with which gender they will gain attraction opinion and can form lover relations. It is decided when the character is around 10 years old and cannot be changed. AI characters will never try to form a relation with characters that do not match their sexual orientation. Both the initial distribution of sexual orientation and the chance for children to gain a certain sexual orientation is determined by the sexuality distribution game rule.

If the child is played by a player, there is a 20% chance that the player will get to pick the gender preference.

Male icon	Female icon	Preference	Can form lover relations and have attraction opinion with
Heterosexual.png	Heterosexual.png	Heterosexual	Opposite sex
Homosexual male.png	Homosexual female.png	Homosexual	Same sex
Bisexual male.png	Bisexual female.png	Bisexual	Everyone
Asexual.png	Asexual.png	Asexual	No one
Opinion
Each character has an  opinion of every other character. The  opinion the player character holds influences the success rate of certain actions that target another character while the  opinion of AI characters also determines their behavior towards other characters.

When a character dies, their primary heir will temporarily inherit part of the  opinion of vassals towards the late liege, shown as Opinion of Predecessor.

Positive opinion towards predecessor: 25% of  opinion is inherited.
Negative opinion towards predecessor: 50% of  opinion is inherited.
Opinion
General
General is an  opinion modifier that affects every character, this means only Popular Opinion of Counties are independent of this modifier. See also Attributes.

These are modifiers that influence General  opinion:

+10 Dynasty Legacy "Glory" (tier 5)
-8 ~ +92 Personal Diplomacy Skill
-2 ~ -126 Trait "Gallows bait"
-1 ~ -1000 Tyranny
-10 Trait "Peasant Leader"
-10 Trait "Sadistic"
-15 Trait "Murderer"
-25 Modifier "Attacked An Ally"
-50 Modifier "Broken Truce"
Attraction
Attraction is an  opinion modifier that can only be held towards characters one's sexual preference allows. Male characters aged above 65 years and female character above 50 years are not affected by attraction. Only adults (16 year old and above) can generate attraction and have attraction towards another.

These are modifiers that influence Attraction opinion:

+10 Trait "Brave"
+5/+10 Trait "Hunter" (Falconer way) (Level 1/Level 2)
+5/+10/+15 Trait "Amazonian"/("Herculean")/"Robust"/"Hale"
+5 Trait "Gregarious"
-30/-20/-10/+10/+20/+30 Trait "Hideous"/"Ugly"/"Homely"/"Comely"/"Handsome"("Pretty")/"Beautiful"
Same Dynasty
Dynasty is an  opinion modifier that affects everyone of the same dynasty.

These are modifiers that influence Same Dynasty  opinion:

"Mystical Ancestors" Tradition: +10
Same Dynasty: +5
Tier-3 "Legitimacy" Legacy: +5
Tier-4 "Kin" Legacy: +5
"Dynastic Kinslayer" Trait: -5
"Familial Kinslayer" Trait: -5
"Kinslayer" Trait: -5
"Dininherited" Trait: -5
"Gallivanter" Trait: -10
"Legitimized Bastard" Trait: -10
"Bastard" Trait: -15
Virtue & Sins
Some traits are considered virtuous or sinful in certain faiths, the opinion modifier will be dependant on the character whose faith sees certain traits as virtuous or sinful. (e,g, a Muslim who has the "Forgiving" trait would have no modifiers from other Muslims, have +10 (virtue) modifier from Christians and -10 (sin) modifier with Asatruans).

Faith Hostility
Faith Hostility is determined by the Religious Families to be Righteous/Astray/Hostile/Evil, and are then given 0/-10/-20/-30 opinion maluses, respectively.

"Pluralist" Doctrine: -50% faith hostility opinion malus
"Fundamentalist" Doctrine +100% faith hostility opinion malus
The opinion malus from other characters is dependant by how hostile the other faith sees that faith that you belong to as, not how hostile your faith sees their faith as.

The "Pluralist" and "Fundamentalist" Doctrines affect how much maluses to opinion they have for you, not vice-versa.

Relations
When certain requirements are met, two characters can have one of three types of relations, with each type having three levels. Relations have a great impact on how two characters act towards each other.

Childhood relations can only be held between two child characters and might evolve into their corresponding adulthood relations when the characters reach adulthood
Adulthood relations can be gained and lost as a result of events
Lifelong relations can only be obtained towards characters with an existing adulthood relation and each character can have only one of each lifelong relation
Relation	Childhood	Adulthood	Lifelong	Can be ended manually
Friend.png Friendship	Friend
 +60 opinion
Friend
 +60 opinion
Council.png +20% Efficiency as councilor
 +10 stress when character dies
Best Friend
 +120 opinion
Council.png +30% Efficiency as councilor
 +10 stress when character dies
No
Lover.png Love	Crush
 +60 opinion
Lover
 +60 opinion
 +25% fertility
 +10 stress when character dies
Soulmate
 +120 opinion
 +25% fertility
 +10 stress when character dies
Yes
Rival.png Conflict	Bully-Victim
 -20 opinion
Rival
 -60 opinion
Council.png -20% Efficiency as councilor
 -35 stress when character dies
Nemesis
 -120 opinion
Council.png -30% Efficiency as councilor
 -35 stress when character dies
No
Khans of the Steppe	Available only with the Khans of the Steppe DLC enabled.
Two characters who have  Nomadic government or the  Way of the Nomad trait can swear a Blood Brotherhood with each other as long as they're not family members. Being Blood Siblings has the same benefits as being Friends but also gives the characters a  Strong Hook on each other, forms an alliance, and allows choosing a Blood Brother modifier if any is available. Each character can only have one Blood Brother. The relation will end if a call to war from a Blood Brother is refused.

Tyranny
Tyranny is  negative opinion gained by rulers who take unjust actions. It is felt by vassals and courtiers towards a liege. The maximum tyranny a character can have is 1000. Tyranny is not gained if the liege has a valid reason.

Action	Tyranny
Successfully imprisoning a character	+20 tyranny
Increasing feudal obligations	+20 tyranny per obligation without concession or hooks
Revoking title without title revocation reason	+20 tyranny
Retracting a vassal	+5 tyranny
Banishing a vassal	+5 tyranny
Executioner court position.pngExecuting a vassal	+10 tyranny
Events	Varies
Tyranny can be lost through certain events and most importantly through

Monthly Decay:

-0.25 Monthly delay by Default
-0.15 Monthly delay by Perk 'Soon Forgiven' Stewardship duty focus.png Duty lifestyle tree
-0.05 Monthly delay by Perk 'Venial'  Guile Dynasty
All tyrannical actions, events and the monthly decay can be affected by the following modifiers:

Source	Tyranny Gain
Core tenet nudism.png Natural Primitivism (Tenet)	+100%
Tradition knight.png Chivalry Tradition	+50%
Tradition quill.png Legalistic Tradition	+25%
Generic Artifact Modifier	+10% to +40%
General Modifiers	Varies
Structure shwedagon pagoda.pngShwedagon Pagoda (Icon piety eastern 03.pngHoly Building)	-10%
Shamshir-e Zomorrodnegar (Historical Artifact)	-15%
Structure palace of achen.pngPalace of Aachen (Special Building)	-20%
Jewelled Danda (Historical Artifact)	-20%
 Callous (Trait)	-20%
Diplomatic Court Grandeur Level 4 Perk	-20%
Faith is Tanism (Religion donyipoloism.pngDonyi-Poloism or Religion sedism.pngSedism)
and

Faith holds Holy Site Pemako

-20%
Faith is Mandé (Religion west african.pngBidaism or Religion mande.pngSiguism)
and

Faith holds Holy Site Niani

-20%
Defender of the Faith (Theology Lifestyle Perk)
and Faith has the Doctrine pluralism righteous.pngRighteous doctrine

-25%
Easy Difficulty	-25%
Core tenet pursuit of power.png Pursuit of Power (Tenet)	-50%
Very Easy Difficulty	-75%
General Modifiers and Artifacts	Varies


Source	Tyranny Loss
Domestic Affairs (Chancellor Task)	~+1% to ~+50%
Generic Artifact Modifier	+2% to +16%
General Modifiers	Varies
Tradition king.png Hereditary Hierarchy (Cultural Tradition)	-50%
With the Torturer lifestyle perk Malice Implicit, characters gain  +0.5 dread per tyranny.

Diplomatic range
The diplomatic range is the distance within which two characters can interact with each other. Neighboring realms are always within diplomatic range of each other, as well as realms separated by no more than three sea zones.

The first Dynasty Legacy from the Adventure Legacy Tree from Northern Lords DLC increases Diplomatic Range by 30%.
The Rock of Gibraltar increases Diplomatic Range by 20%.
Diplomatic range map mode is only available in debug mode.

Nicknames
Nicknames are epithets granted to characters and are displayed either before or after a character's name. They are mainly gained through  decisions and events.

AI Personality
AI characters will act based on the following attributes:

Boldness: Characters with high Boldness are less affected by  Dread and more likely to declare war on rulers of similar or higher strength, accept and propose Duels and take risks. Characters with low Boldness are more affected by  Dread and more likely to declare war on weaker rulers, accept faction ultimatums and more reluctant to try to imprison Strong Vassals and take risks.
Compassion: Characters with high Compassion are more likely to release prisoners (especially children), use the Task accept culture.png Promote Cultural Acceptance steward task, let people marry for love and make friends and more reluctant to harm others, use the Murder scheme, execute prisoners or torture prisoners. Characters with low Compassion are more likely to harm others, use Hostile schemes, execute prisoners or torture prisoners.
Greed: Characters with high Greed will more often choose short-term gains, go on Raids, use the Task collect taxes.png Collect Taxes steward task, betray other characters for  and  Titles and pay less on contracts and are more reluctant to pay ransom, send gifts, accept title revocations and end wars in War outcome white peace.png White Peace. Characters with low Greed will more often spend  Gold, pay ransom, send gifts, accept title revocations and host activities and pay more on contracts and are more reluctant to betray other characters for  and  Titles.
Honor: Characters with high Honor are more likely to follow Laws and honor Alliances and more reluctant to blackmail characters with Secrets. Characters with low Honor are more likely to start hostile Schemes, blackmail characters with Secrets, use the Task find secrets.png Find Secrets spymaster task and betray their friends and spouses.
Rationality: Characters with high Rationality are more likely to use the Task disrupt schemes.png Disrupt Schemes spymaster task, peace out of wars when they last more than 6 months and start Murder schemes against a liege with Tyranny and try to fix debts and are more reluctant to gain Tyranny. Characters with low Rationality are more likely to gain Tyranny, get into inopportune wars and continue wars for more than 6 months.
Sociability: determines how often the character will consider a character interaction.
Vengefulness: Characters will high Vengefulness will more often seek to harm Rivals and cheating Spouses and request Excommunication to punish criminals and will less often forgive slights and transgressions. Characters with low Vengefulness will more often forgive slights and transgressions, refuse to punish prisoners and pardon criminals and do not start hostile schemes targeting Rivals and cheating Spouses any more than other characters.
Zeal: Characters with high Zeal are more likely to join defensively against Holy Wars, pledge or donate to Great Holy Wars, convert counties or vassals, go on pilgrimages and take actions that grant  Piety and more reluctant to convert to other faiths. Characters with low Zeal are more likely to ignore Faith in politics and use it as a tool and more reluctant to take actions that grant  Piety or accept requests from rulers with Theocracy government.
Each AI character will have its personality described with an adjective and a noun based on the highest amount of the value of two attributes. Children who do not have any traits yet will instead be described as Balanced, as are those who have little to no personality tendencies.

Every character will have a pose that is determined by the highest or lowest value that the character in question has, with the pose being slightly different between male and female characters (i.e High boldness characters will stand confidently, low boldness characters will cower meekly).

Attribute	Very Negative (-76 to -100)	Negative (-1 to -75)	Positive (+1 to +75)	Very Positive (+76 to +100)
Adjective	Noun	Adjective	Noun	Adjective	Noun	Adjective	Noun
Boldness	Spineless	Craven	Cowardly	Coward	Bold	Gambler	Fearless	Adventurer
Compassion	Evil	Villain	Callous	Brute	Compassionate	Altruist	Gracious	Empath
Greed	Content	Lackey	Content	Follower	Covetous	Grasper	Rapacious	Ravener
Honor	Treacherous	Blackguard	Dishonorable	Knave	Honorable	Gentleman / Gentlewoman	Righteous	Paragon
Rationality	Insane	Maniac	Irrational	Fool	Rational	Thinker	Analytic	Planner
Vengefulness	Magnanimous	Absolver	Forgiving	Conciliator	Resentful	Quarreler	Vindictive	Antagonist
Zeal	Godless	Atheist	Cynical	Unbeliever	Religious	Believer	Zealous	Zealot
Economic Archetype
An AI ruler would spend their  Gold according to the following archetypes based on their traits and attributes:

Warlike.png Warlike: A Warlike ruler will save  Gold for war before investing it in developing their realm. If they are at peace for an extended period of time, they will use their gold to build Buildings. If the DLC Legends of the Dead.png Legends of the Dead DLC is installed they are also more likely to create and promote  Heroic legends.
Relevant Traits:  Wrathful,  Impatient,  Sadistic,  Ambitious,  Vengeful,  Irritable, and  Zealous.
AI with high Boldness and Greed also tends to be Warlike.
Cautious.png Cautious: A Cautious ruler is more averse to declaring offensive wars, more inclined to save  Gold for defense, and invest gold for Fortifaction Buildings and Men-at-Arms regiments. If the DLC Legends of the Dead.png Legends of the Dead DLC is installed they are also less likely to create and promote legends.
Relevant traits:  Patient,  Calm,  Craven,  Paranoid, and  Content.
 Fickle rulers will never be have this archetype.
Builder.png Builder: A Builder will fund Buildings and Men-at-Arms regiments as soon as they have surplus  Gold. They construct more Economic Buildings and Holdings. They only save up gold if threatened directly, such as by a strong Faction. If the DLC Legends of the Dead.png Legends of the Dead DLC is installed they are also less likely to create and promote legends.
Relevant traits:  Calm,  Patient,  Diligent,  Generous,  Stubborn,  Profligate, and  Improvident.
Rulers with Stewardship domain focus.png Domain lifestyle focus also tend to have this archetype.
Rulers with high Boldness, inclination for building and low inclination for war tend to have this archetype.
Vassal stance zealot.png Pious Builder: A Pious builder will invest all their  Gold to increase their  Piety. They will spend their treasury to fund religious and ceremonial Buildings, Great Projects, Activities and Decisions, and often construct more Pious Buildings and Temple or Temple Citadel Holdings. They only save up gold if directly threatened, such as by a strong Faction. If the DLC Legends of the Dead.png Legends of the Dead DLC is installed they are also more likely to create and promote  Holy legends.
Relevant traits:  Zealous,  Forgiving,  Humble,  Patient,  Diligent,  Generous and  Improvident.
Rulers with Learning theology focus.png Theology lifestyle focus also tend to have this archetype.
Mandala Rulers with a penchant for Virtue and no particular inclination for War also tend to have this archetype.
Unpredictable: Unpredictable rulers have no traits for any specific archetype, and may temporarily follow any economic strategy.
Story icon conqueror.png Conqueror: A Conqueror ruler will invest all their  Gold into the war chest or to buy Men-at-arms. They hardly sponsor inspirations and only use Activities to gain  Prestige and  Piety to go to war.
Used only by rulers with the  Conqueror or  Greatest of Khans trait.
Legends

A legend being created
DLC Legends of the Dead.png	Available only with the Legends of the Dead DLC enabled.
Legends represent important deeds that a character achieved in life. The story of the legend will be written in various events as the legend is being completed. Creating a legend costs 200  Gold if  Count or  Duke, 300 if  King and 400 if  Emperor, and it also has a monthly maintenance cost until it is completed.  Legitimizing legends also cost 75  Prestige. A legend needs at least 5 years before it can be completed or abandoned. Each legend can only be created once.

Legends are created from Legend Seeds. The primary way of obtaining Legend Seeds is by employing a Court chronicler court position.png Court Chronicler with high Aptitude. They can also be obtained by doing certain deeds or being part of a certain dynasty.

When created, a legend can be about either the ruler creating it or to one of its close or extended family members, living or dead, as long as they are at least 16 years old. If the protagonist is another character the ruler will gain +20  Legitimacy if the protagonist does not have a trait considered a virtue, and +50 if it does. Creating a legend also unlocks the Commission Legend Artifact decision.

Each legend while being created will have an Legend owner.png Owner and may have Legend promoter.png Promoters as well. Both will gain bonuses depending on the legend type and unlock the Spread legend intent.png Spread Legend intent for certain activities. Additional bonuses can be obtained as the legend is created.

Legend owner.png Owner is the ruler who starts the legend and gains the most bonuses. If the character dies any member of the same dynasty can take ownership of the legend from the Chronicle screen.
Legend promoter.png Promoters are rulers that promote the legend, gaining fewer bonuses but only paying half of the maintenance cost of owning it. Promoting a legend requires one of the following:
Know the language of the legend's creator
Neighbor with the legend's creator
Lover or Soulmate with the legend's creator
Friend or Best Friend with the legend's creator
Legends come in three types and three levels of quality, which together determine what benefits they give. When a legend is created it will start at Famed quality. Once it has spread to 100 Baronies it can be upgraded to Illustrious quality and will not spread further until upgraded. Once it has spread to 300 Baronies it can be upgraded to Mythical quality and will not spread further until upgraded.

Quality	Benefits	 Heroic	 Holy	 Legitimizing

Famed	Legend owner.png Owner	
 +10% Prestige
 +100 Legitimacy
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 +10% Piety
 +100 Legitimacy
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 +0.10 Monthly Renown
 +5% Renown
 +200 Legitimacy
 Get an Unpressed Claim on every title de jure of the primary title
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
Legend promoter.png Promoter	
 +1 Martial
 +2% Prestige
 +1 Learning
 +2% Piety
 +1 Stewardship
 +0.01 Monthly Renown
Legend province modifier.png County	
 +5% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +5 Popular Opinion
 +0.10 Monthly Control
 +5 Popular Opinion
 +1% Development Growth
 +5 Popular Opinion

Illustrious	Legend owner.png Owner	
 +15% Prestige
 +1 Diplomacy per Level of Fame
 +200 Legitimacy
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Launch a Legendary Adventure decision
 +15% Piety
 +1 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +200 Legitimacy
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Evangelize to the Realm decision
 +0.25 Monthly Renown
 +10% Renown
 +400 Legitimacy
 Get an Unpressed Claim on every title de jure of the primary title's kingdom
 50% chance unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Expand the Kingdom decision
Legend promoter.png Promoter	
 +2 Martial
 +6% Prestige
 +2 Learning
 +4% Piety
 +2 Stewardship
 +0.04 Monthly Renown
Legend province modifier.png County	
 +10% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +10 Popular Opinion
 +0.15 Monthly Control
 +10 Popular Opinion
 +2% Development Growth
 +10 Popular Opinion

Mythical	Legend owner.png Owner	
 +25% Prestige
 +2 Diplomacy per Level of Fame
 +300 Legitimacy
 Unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Launch a Legendary Adventure decision
 Unlocks the Demand Local Submission decision
 +25% Piety
 +2 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +300 Legitimacy
 Unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Evangelize to the Realm decision
 Unlocks the Reassert Holy Mission or Evangelize Pacifism decision
 +0.50 Monthly Renown
 +20% Renown
 +600 Legitimacy
 Get an Unpressed Claim on every title de jure of the primary title's empire
 Unlocks the Clear Grounds for a Legendary Building decision
 Unlocks the Consolidate the Kingdom decision
Legend promoter.png Promoter	
 +4 Martial
 +10% Prestige
 +4 Learning
 +10% Piety
 +4 Stewardship
 +0.10 Monthly Renown
Legend province modifier.png County	
 +20% Stationed Men-at-Arms Damage
 +20 Popular Opinion
 +0.25 Monthly Control
 +20 Popular Opinion
 +6% Development Growth
 +20 Popular Opinion
Sources	
Having a skilled Chancellor job.png Chancellor
Having the  Crusader trait
Having the  Mujahid trait
Having the  Warrior of the Faith trait
Defeating a commander with the  Greatest of Khans trait
Killing the animal of a Hunt type legendary icon.png Legendary Hunt
Having an Accolade and a Activity feast.png Feast
Forming a new empire
Winning a great holy war
Winning a defense battle against a higher title rank ruler
Raiding a barony that has a special building
Winning a duel against an Emperor or Head of Faith
Winning 3 Activity tournament.png Grand Tournaments
Having a skilled Chancellor job.png Chancellor
Having the  Crusader trait
Having the  Mujahid trait
Having the  Warrior of the Faith trait
Having the  Theologian trait
Having the  Sayyid trait
Completing a Activity pilgrimage.png Pilgrimage while the  Pilgrim trait has enough experience
Holding a holy site title
Reforming or creating a faith
Reaching the Religious Icon level of devotion
Constructing a temple holding
Having a skilled Chancellor job.png Chancellor
Heroic bloodline legacy track.png Heroic Bloodline dynasty legacy
Royal Court events
Grand Wedding events
Completing a legend ends the Legend owner.png Owner and Legend promoter.png Promoter bonuses but allows a new legend to be started. A county can receive bonuses from multiple legends.

Historical legend seeds
Historical legend seeds can only be used once per game, regardless of character. They are restricted to certain dynasties, cultures or faiths.

Some historical seeds have an associated ancient culture. If the Royal Court Royal Court DLC is also enabled, completing these legends will give the option to create a divergent culture with the ancient culture's cultural pillars

Legend seed	Type	Dynasty	Culture	Religion	Title	Level of fame/devotion	Other requirements	Ancient culture
New Troy	 Heroic		Yes Any	Yes Any	 County of Middle Seaxe	 Illustrious		Trojan
 Hellenic heritage
 Hellenic language
Heirs of Vercingetorix	 Heroic		 Brythonic heritage	Yes Any	
No Byzantine Empire
No Holy Roman Empire
No Roman Empire
 Illustrious	Yes Realm capital is in the Francia region	
The Ballad of Corineus	 Heroic		
 Cornish
 Cornish descent
Yes Any	 Duchy of Cornwall	 Exalted Among Men		Trojan
 Hellenic heritage
 Hellenic language
The Cellar of Plenty	 Heroic	Piast	Yes Any	Yes Any	Yes Any	 Illustrious		
Heirs of the Dragon Goddess	 Heroic	Pagan	Yes Any	Yes Any	 Kingdom of Pagan	 Illustrious		
Descendant of Bahram Chobin	 Heroic	Mihran	 Iranian heritage	 Zoroastrianism	Yes Any	 Exalted Among Men		
Sons of Loðbrók	 Heroic	Sigurdr	 Any that can raise runestones	 Any Pagan	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		
The Song of El Cid	 Heroic	Osorio	Yes Any	Yes Any	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
Yes Any	Icon group of characters.png Rodrigo de Vivar	
Blood of the Naga	 Holy		
 Kashmiri
 Kashmiri descent
Yes Any	 Kingdom of Kashmir	 Devoted Servant		
Shibi Chakravarti	 Holy	Chola	Yes Any	Yes Any	Yes Any	 Paragon of Virtue		
The Holy King	 Holy	Cerdicing	Yes Any	Yes Any	Yes Any	 Devoted Servant	No Pagan independent rulers in the Britannia region	
Sceafa, Grandson of Noah	 Holy	Cerdicing	Yes Any	 Any Abrahamic	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Devoted Servant		
Edward the Martyr	 Holy	Cerdicing	Yes Any	 Christianity	
 Any duchy
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Devoted Servant		
La Prise d'Orange	 Holy	Toulouse	Yes Any	 Christianity	 Duchy of Toulouse	 Devoted Servant		
Kings of Semien	 Holy	Gideon	Yes Any	 Judaism	 Duchy of Gondar	Icon piety judaism 04.png Paragon of Virtue		Hebrew
 Israelite heritage
 Hebrew language
Sons of David	 Holy	Solomonid	Yes Any	 Any Abrahamic	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Paragon of Virtue		Hebrew
 Israelite heritage
 Hebrew language
Legitimizing historical seeds
Legitimizing historical seeds, in addition to their usual bonuses, will also give the character completing the legend claims on a certain major title.

Legend seed	Dynasty	Culture	Religion	Title	Level of fame/devotion	Other requirements	Claim	Ancient culture
Roman Heritage		Yes Any	Yes Any	
 Kingdom of Rum
 Byzantine Empire
 Holy Roman Empire
 Roman Empire
 Illustrious		 Roman Empire	Roman
 Latin heritage
 Latin language
Gothic Kings		
 Byzantine heritage
 North Germanic heritage
 Visigothic Codes tradition
Yes Any	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Empire of Hispania	Gothic
 Gothic heritage
 Central Germanic language
Hunnic Heritage		
 Magyar heritage
 Mongolic heritage
 Turkic heritage
 Hunnic heritage
Yes Any	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Empire of Khazaria	Hunnic
 Hunnic heritage
 Hunnic language
Sons of Scota		
 Goidelic heritage
 West Germanic heritage
Yes Any	 Kingdom of Scotland	 Illustrious		 Kingdom of Scotland	Ancient Egyptian
 Egyptian heritage
 Egyptian language
The Blood of Cadell		 Brythonic heritage	Yes Any	 Duchy of Powys	 Illustrious		 Duchy of Powys	
The Legacy of Arthur Pendragon		
 Brythonic heritage
 West Germanic heritage
Yes Any	Yes Any	 Illustrious		 Kingdom of England	
The Red Hand of Ulster		
 Irish
 Irish descent
Yes Any	 Duchy of Ulster	 Illustrious		 Kingdom of Ireland	
Gur Lineage		 Iranian heritage	 Zoroastrianism	 Duchy of Shirvan	 Exalted Among Men		 Persian Empire	
The Heirs of Charlemagne	
Capet
Karling
 Central Germanic heritage
 Frankish heritage
Yes Any	
 Kingdom of France
 Empire of Francia
 Holy Roman Empire
 Illustrious		 Empire of Francia	
From Peasant to Basileus	Makedon	Yes Any	Yes Any	 Byzantine Empire	 Distinguished	Icon group of characters.png Basileus Basileios	 Byzantine Empire	
Přemysl the Ploughman	Přemyslid	Yes Any	Yes Any	
 Any duchy
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Kingdom of Bohemia	
Sons of Rurik	Rurikid	Yes Any	Yes Any	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Distinguished	No Rurik Rurikid is alive	 Empire of Russia	
The Glittering Visitor	Borjigin	Yes Any	Yes Any	
 Any duchy
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Empire of Mongolia	
Blood of Brahman	Pallava	Yes Any	 Hinduism	Yes Any	Icon piety eastern 04.png Paragon of Virtue		 Deccan Empire	
The King of Turan: Afrasiyab	Karakhanid	 Turkic heritage	Yes Any	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Persian Empire	
Heirs of David	Bagratuni	
 Georgian
 Georgian descent
 Any Abrahamic	 Kingdom of Georgia	 Distinguished		 Kingdom of Georgia	Hebrew
 Israelite heritage
 Hebrew language
Blood of Yazdegerd III	Ghaznavid	 Iranian heritage	 Zoroastrianism	
 Any kingdom
 Any empire
 Illustrious		 Seljuk Empire	
Hieros Gamos	Yngling	 Norse	 Norse	Yes Any	 Illustrious		 Kingdom of Norway	
Decision legend seeds
The following legend seeds can only be obtained by decisions and only if they weren't disabled by game rules.

Legend seed	Type	Decision	Description
The Sovereignty	 Legitimizing	
Dynasty of Many Crowns
Strengthen Bloodline
Either through fate or by design, power falls into [dynasty name] hands. Our lands are many and our deeds great, and our dominion over the thrones of the world is preordained.
A New Caesar	 Legitimizing	Restore the Roman Empire	Rome, once diminished to a distant memory, now rises again with a new Caesar, ready to bring civilization once again to a new age.
The Empire of the Slavs	 Legitimizing	Unite the Slavs	The Slavic peoples spread far and wide across Europe, but now [protagonist name] stands as the first Tsar of all Slavs!
The Holy Blood	 Legitimizing	Consecrate Bloodline	[protagonist name]'s blood flows through all members of the [dynasty name] family. Our devotion to [high god name] is absolute and our deeds done only in His/Her name.
The Prophecy Fulfilled	 Holy	Restore the Faith High Priesthood	The diaspora was thought to be eternal, but under [protagonist name], a new High Priesthood has emerged to lead the Jewish people into a new and brighter age.
The Spiritual Triumph of Era Zaharrak	 Holy	Champion the Faith of the Country Basques	Guided by his/her faith in Mari, [protagonist name] has led the faithful Fededunak to victory over the [former faith adherents name], led by the vile.
The Spiritual Triumph of Táltosism	 Holy	Revive Táltosism	Guided by his/her faith in Isten, [protagonist name] has led the faithful Táltosists to victory over the [former faith adherents name], led by the vile.
Reigniting the Flames	 Holy	Restore the Magi	The Zoroastrian faith was lead by the great Magi of the past, but the order was dismantled. By the grace of Ahuramazda, Anahita, and Mithra, [protagonist name] restored the Magi.
A New Archduke	 Heroic	Form Archduchy of Austria	A new Archduke rises from the ashes to bring prosperity under his/her benevolent rule.
A New Chakravartin	 Heroic	Become Chakravarti	A new Chakravartin rises from the ashes to bring prosperity under his/her benevolent rule.
A New Sultan al-Salațin	 Heroic	Found the Empire of Hindustan	A new Sultan al-Salațin rises from the ashes to bring prosperity under his/her benevolent rule.
African True Hero	 Heroic	Unite Africa	There is nay a soul in Africa that does not know the name of [protagonist name] and his/her accomplishments.
Britannian True Hero	 Heroic	Reclaim Britannia	There is nay a soul in Britannia that does not know the name of [protagonist name] and his/her accomplishments.
Dominion of the Sea	 Heroic	Secure the High Kingdom of the North Sea	The North Sea has been the dominion of the Danes, and now under the rulership of [protagonist name], an empire rises above the waves.
Ganges Plain True Hero	 Heroic	Take Stewardship of the Sacred River	There is nay a soul in Ganges Plain that does not know the name of [protagonist name] and his/her accomplishments.
Great Deed for Empire of Francia	 Heroic	Restore Carolingian Borders	Throughout all history, among all rulers of Empire of Francia, none has achieved so much, none shall be spoken about before the great [protagonist name].
Great Deed for Kingdom of Burgundy	 Heroic	Unify the Burgundies	Throughout all history, among all rulers of Kingdom of Burgundy, none has achieved so much, none shall be spoken about before the great [protagonist name].
Great Deed for West-Slavia	 Heroic	Unite the West Slavs	Throughout all history, among all rulers of West-Slavia, none has achieved so much, none shall be spoken about before the great [protagonist name].
Italian True Hero	 Heroic	Unify Italy	There is nay a soul in Italia that does not know the name of [protagonist name] and his/her accomplishments.
The Greatest of Khans	 Heroic	Become Greatest of Khans	All that is under the sky belongs to the greatest of all Khans. With the Mongol people united behind one Khagan, wolves howl and eagles cry as Genghis Khan burns his/her name across the world.
The New Kaiser/Kaiserin	 Heroic	Restore the Holy Roman Empire	A new Kaiser/Kaiserin rises from the ashes to bring prosperity under his/her benevolent rule.
The New King/Queen of Israel	 Heroic	Restore Israel	Israel, a Kingdom for God's chosen people, subjugated by Assyrians, Babylonians, and Romans. Our exodus from the Promised Land has sent our people on a journey across the world, but now a new Kingdom of Israel rises and God's people inhabit its lands once again!
The Pirate King/Queen	 Heroic	Elevate the Kingdom of Mann & the Isles	Across the waves of Britannia, sailors tell stories of a great and dreadful pirate King/Queen, the terrifying [protagonist name]. Even the mightiest of warriors turns pale when they see those boats appearing on their shores. Surrender would be the only option, if only the King/Queen would accept such a thing.
The Bushi of the Tiger	 Heroic	Roads to Power The Champion of the Tiger	And then they saw a snow-white animal come drawing down the tide a little boat of pearly sheen, and a stately bushi that say therein, and seen'd its course to guide.
The Champion of the Lion	 Heroic	Roads to Power The Champion of the Lion	And then they saw a snow-white animal come drawing down the tide a little boat of pearly sheen, and a stately champion that say therein, and seen'd its course to guide.
The Knight of the Swan	 Heroic	Roads to Power The Knight of the Swan	And then they saw a snow-white animal come drawing down the tide a little boat of pearly sheen, and a stately knight that say therein, and seen'd its course to guide.
The Greatest Conqueror	 Heroic	Roads to Power Become a Great Conqueror	A wanderer no more. A Conqueror was born from an indominable soul.
The Fate of Hispania	 Heroic	DLC Fate of Iberia.png Iberian Foothold
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Ended the Iberian Struggle	The squabbling of the Iberian nobility is over, and [protagonist first name] emerges as its savior. The [primary title tier] victorious.
The Fate of The Persian Empire	 Heroic	DLC Fate of Iberia.png Destroy the Caliphate
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Ended the Iranian Intermezzo	The Iranian Intermezzo is at last at an end, and [protagonist name] emerges as the hero to usher in a new age for the region.
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19Character
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
