
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
County
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

A Count is a character who controls at least one County. It is the second title rank available and the lowest rank that is playable. On the map, the territory of a county will contain multiple Baronies and cannot be altered. Each county belongs to a de jure Duchy, which also cannot be changed.


Contents
1	Popular opinion
2	Control
3	Development
3.1	Development growth
3.1.1	Sources of development growth:
4	Corruption
4.1	Fomented Revolts
5	Siberian permafrost
6	References
Popular opinion
Popular Opinion represents the sentiment of the populace towards the county's direct owner. If Popular Opinion is negative, Populist or Peasant Factions can form in the County.

Each county has a culture and faith. If the ruler who owns the county title has a different faith, it will lose up to -45 Popular Opinion depending on faith hostility and the county's faith's  Fervor. If the ruler who owns the county title has a different culture, it will lose up to -15 Popular Opinion depending on Cultural Acceptance and whether they speak the county's culture's language.

A county's culture and faith can be converted by assigning the relevant Councilor Task. Note that the conversion has to be completed in one sitting; progress will be lost if the councilor assigned to the conversion task is reassigned to another task or County.

Offensive wars that last more than 6 months add -0.5 Popular Opinion. This modifier will gradually decay at +0.5 per month after the war ends. If another offensive war is started before the penalty decayed completely, there is no grace period and the penalty will begin to accumulate immediately.

Control
Control represents the power a landed Count has over their County and ranges from 0 to 100. It can be decreased from events, baronies being captured in sieges (unless title holder has Enduring Hardships perk), or being forcefully seized (-75). Control increases at a rate of 0.1 per month and can be increased faster with the Task increase control.png Increase Control in County councilor task.

Every point of Control below 100 brings the following penalties:

 -1% Tax
 -0.5% Levies
 by +0.6% Danger
 -1% County Fertility
If the title holder has the Absolute Control perk when Control is 100 it will read as Absolute and the county will provide an additional +10%  Taxes and +5%  Levies.

Development
Development is the measurement of technological advancement and general infrastructure in a county and ranges from 0 to 100. Each point of development increases a county's  Supply limit by +150. The average development of counties following a culture will affect that culture's adoption rate of innovations by 0.02 per average level.

If the county is ruled by a  Feudal,  Clan or  Administrative ruler, each point of development also provides +0.5%  Taxes and  Levies.

Development levels of 10/20/40 or higher also give increasing penalties to the  Hunt success chance in the county.

Development growth
Increasing county development by 1 requires accumulating 100 development growth.

Development radiates outwards from high-development counties to all other counties connected by a land route at 0.1 per difference in development level between these two counties.

Development growth can be most significantly increased via the steward's  Increase Development in County task in the council. However, when performing this task an existing development penalty decreasing monthly development growth from it is also applied. The maximum penalty is reached at 10 development, but each era has a civic innovation that will raise the development level at which it is reached: 20, 35, 55, and finally 90. The steward's culture must know these innovations for them to apply, your character's culture and the culture of the county are irrelevant (may not be working as intended as there is currently also a UI bug).

The monthly development growth from the Increase Development in County task is calculated as follows:

( 0.1 + 0.175 *  Councilor stewardship ) * (1 - existing development penalty)
existing development penalty is capped at 87.5%:

existing development penalty = min( 0.875, development/100 * 9.13 * Innovation development )
Innovation development applies only if your steward's culture knows the following civic innovations:

Public Works = 0.5
Communal Government = 0.2856
Urbanization = 0.1818
Renaissance Thought = 0.1111
In addition to not being able to research these innovations past tribal era, tribals also get a x0.5 penalty to development growth increase. The penalty can be avoided by having a feudal liege, vassal or lower rank neighbor. It's not clear if it is working completely as intended.

Development can also be increased by +0.3 monthly in your realm capital through the centralization perk in the stewardship lifestyle or by certain special buildings, but it is still a fairly slow process. Development growth receives positive modifiers from economic buildings, civic innovations (one every era for +10%  Development Growth), the 3rd erudition legacy (+20%  Development Growth). Terrain can provide a positive or negative modifier, same as event modifiers such as corruption. Modifiers are applied additively after the penalty has been subtracted.

Sources of development growth:
 monthly development growth
From neighbors	+0.1 per difference to neighbors
Increase Development in County councilor task	see above
Court gardener	+0.1 to +0.7 Development growth in realm capital
Buildings	varies
Artifacts	varies
Corruption
Corruption includes various negative modifiers that can appear for 10 years in a County if Control falls below 35% or the title holder is in Debt for more than 3 months. They can also be added for 5 years by the Collect Taxes councilor action if the Steward has low skill (Stewardship). A county can have up to 3 Corruption modifiers at the same time. Corruption modifiers can be removed by the Marshal task "Increase Control"; one Corruption modifier can be removed by this task immediately if Control is at 100, at the cost of -25 Control.

Modifier	Effects
Bandits Running Rampant icon
Bandits Running Rampant
Bandits roam freely in the County
 -20% Holding Taxes
 -50% Monthly Development Growth
Deserting Levies icon
Deserting Levies
Levies are deserting in great numbers in this County
 -30% Levy Size
Distrust of Courts icon
Distrust of Courts
There are not enough courts to sit in judgement in peasant cases in this County
 -25 Popular Opinion
Incompetent Tax Collection icon
Incompetent Tax Collection
Tax collection efforts are failing in this County
 -40% Holding Taxes
Inefficient Census icon
Inefficient Census
We have no idea who or how many people live in this County
 -20% Holding Taxes
 -30% Garrison Size
Lack of Sheriffs icon
Lack of Sheriffs
There are not enough sheriffs to handle all the territory in this County
 -20% Holding Taxes
 -30% Monthly Development Growth
 -10 Popular Opinion
Lackluster Administration icon
Lackluster Administration
We can no longer fund the proper administration of the County
 -50% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 -1 Monthly Control
Smuggling Rings icon
Smuggling Rings
Smugglers are running rampant throughout the County
 -30% Supply Limit
 -30% Monthly Development Growth
Thieves Guild icon
Thieves Guild
A thieves' guild is operating freely in this County
 -10% Holding Taxes
 -80% Monthly Development Growth
Uncooperative Guilds icon
Uncooperative Guilds
The local guilds are reluctant to cooperate with us
 +25% Building Construction Time
 +25% Building Construction Cost
Unsafe Highways icon
Unsafe Highways
The highways of this County are less safe than wandering through the forest at night
 -20% Monthly Development Growth
 -10 Popular Opinion
Fomented Revolts
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Fomented Revolts is a form of corruption that can only be created by characters who have a Domicile astrologer yurt.png Yamen Grievance Drum estate upgrade at level 3 or 4. They come in 3 levels of severity depending on how much the character who uses the interaction pays.

Modifier	 Monthly Control	 Popular Opinion	 Development Growth
Peasant Outcry icon
Peasant Outcry
Peasants are voicing their concerns under foreign influence in this County
-0.1	-25	
Peasant Outrage icon
Peasant Outrage
Peasants are agitated by foreign agents and refuse to work in this County
-0.25	-50	
Peasant Riots icon
Peasant Riots
Peasants are instigated by foreign propaganda into rioting all over this County
-0.5	-100	-25%
Siberian permafrost
Khans of the Steppe	Available only with the Khans of the Steppe DLC enabled.
Counties in the region of Siberia are affected by Siberian Permafrost, which affects the county differently depending on where its owner's culture has the Tribes of the North tradition.

Yes Tribes of the North tradition	No Tribes of the North tradition
 -6 Monthly Development
 -60% Building Construction Cost in Forest and Taiga terrain
 +6 Defender Advantage
 +1 Building Slots
 -6 Monthly Development
 +600% Building Construction Cost in Forest and Taiga terrain
 -6 Monthly Control
Feudalizing the county's holding costs 2500  Gold but removes the permafrost.

References


Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: Potentially outdated1.18Realm
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
