
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Doctrines
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

Each faith has a large number of doctrines, which detail what is allowed and what is forbidden within a faith. They also affect how AI characters with the  Zealous trait will act.


Contents
1	Main doctrines
2	Religion doctrines
3	Marriage doctrines
4	Crime doctrines
5	Clerical doctrines
5.1	Coronation Tradition
6	Special doctrines
7	Notes
Main doctrines
Main doctrines determine the rules of the faith itself and have a considerable impact on how the realm is governed.

Category	Doctrine	Effects	 Max piety cost	Requirements	Description
View on Gender	Doctrine gender male dominated.png Male Dominated	
 Enables the Male Only and Male Preference succession laws
 Claims of women can only be pressed against other women, children or incapable rulers
No Women cannot be granted titles
No Only men and vassals can be appointed chancellor, marshal, steward, tax collector or kurultai
Yes Men can become commanders and knights if Royal Court is not installed
 −10 Opinion of Female Rulers
 −25% Claims Casus Belli costs for men against women if both rulers have the same faith
300 if  Male Dominated
600 if  Equal
900 if  Female Dominated
None	Men are stronger and better equipped to lead us in this harsh and unforgiving world, so we shall entrust them with governing our society.
Doctrine gender equal.png Equal	
 Enables the Male Preference, Equal and Female Preference succession laws
Khans of the Steppe Characters can become Blood Siblings even if they have different gender
600 if  Male Dominated
300 if  Equal
600 if  Female Dominated
None	It is foolish to deny skilled people a role in government purely because of their gender. We shall allow all who are able to govern our society.
Doctrine gender female dominated.png Female Dominated	
 Enables the Female Only and Female Preference succession laws
 Claims of men can only be pressed against other men, children or incapable rulers
No Men cannot be granted titles
No Only women and vassals can be appointed chancellor, marshal, steward, tax collector or kurultai
Yes Women can become commanders and knights if Royal Court is not installed
 −10 Opinion of Male Rulers
 −25% Claims Casus Belli costs for women against men if both rulers have the same faith
900 if  Male Dominated
600 if  Equal
300 if  Female Dominated
None	Women have proven time and time again that only they have the wisdom and prudence necessary to properly govern our society.
Religious Attitude	Doctrine pluralism fundamentalist.png Fundamentalist	
Heresy.png +100% Heresy risk
 +200% Opinion penalties with other characters of other Faiths
 +20% County Conversion Speed
Factions.png Counties of other Faiths are more likely to join Factions
 Can revoke landed titles from Hostile and Evil infidels without incurring Tyranny
Vassal stance minority.png -20 Minority vassal opinion
200 if  Fundamentalist
400 if  Righteous
600 if  Pluralist
None	Our faith is the one true faith, our word the one true word. Any deviation from the [ReligiousText] is inherently blasphemous.
Doctrine pluralism righteous.png Righteous	
 +100% Opinion penalties with other characters of other Faiths
 Can revoke landed titles from Evil infidels without incurring Tyranny
Vassal stance minority.png -10 Minority Vassal opinion
400 if  Fundamentalist
200 if  Righteous
400 if  Pluralist
None	As mortals we cannot fully comprehend [High God]'s will, but our priests still have a pretty good idea of what is holy and what is profane.
Doctrine pluralism pluralistic.png Pluralist	
Heresy.png −50% Heresy risk
 −50% Opinion penalties with characters of other Faiths
 −20% County conversion speed
Factions.png Counties of other Faiths are less likely to join Factions
 Winning a Holy War will vassalize infidel Rulers in the target area instead of seizing their titles
600 if  Fundamentalist
400 if  Righteous
200 if  Pluralist
None	It is utter folly to say that there is only one right interpretation of divine will, and that all the others views are wrong. Each of us has our own way of worshiping [high god name].
Clerical Tradition	Doctrine theocracy temporal.png Theocratic	
Bishop job.png Enables the Realm Priest council position
Holding church.png Temple holdings are leased
200 if  Theocratic
600 if  Lay Clergy
NoDoctrine temporal head.png Temporal Head of Faith	Only sanctioned priests can be entrusted with upholding our faith's doctrines and, by extension, with managing and caring for our sacred places.
Doctrine theocracy lay clergy.png Lay Clergy	
Religious councillor job.png Enables the Court Chaplain council position
Holding church.png Temple holdings can be held by adult rulers
600 if  Theocratic
200 if  Lay Clergy
None	Any devoted follower is more than capable of understanding, following, and preaching the doctrines of our faith.
Head of Faith	Doctrine no head.png None	
 Fervor cannot go below 25%
No Faith does not have a head of faith
200 if  None
400 if  Spiritual
400 if  Temporal
None	It is utter folly to assume that any one person can truly comprehend the will of [High God]. We must follow our own hearts to discover what their plan for us is.
Doctrine spiritual head.png Spiritual	
 −500 Piety when declaring war against own head of faith
 The head of faith title is given to a prominent clergy member
Yes Unlocks spiritual interactions with the head of faith
600 if  None
300  Spiritual
600  Temporal
None	The physical world and the spiritual world are not alike. We must ensure the spiritual world has it's own leader, to guide us and to protect our faith from being profaned by physical desires.
Doctrine temporal head.png Temporal	
 −100 Piety when declaring war against own Head of Faith
 The head of faith title is created at a cost of piety once they control a holy site
 The head of faith title is inherited as long as the heir shares the same faith
 If the faith is just created and controls a holy site the head of faith title is given to the reformer
Yes If the faith has great holy wars, the head of faith can choose its target
1000 if  None
1000 if  Spiritual
500 if  Temporal
No Theocratic clerical tradition	The spiritual and the physical are intrinsically bound together, whole and inseparable. It is foolish to have two different leaders for one realm.
Pilgrimage Attitude	Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden	
No Cannot use the Pilgrimage activity
 Makes Pilgrim and  Hajji a Sin
 +20% Monthly Piety
 +5 Advantage against co-religionists
200 if Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory.png Mandatory
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Hajj
None	The presence of [High God] can be felt everywhere and the notion that certain places are more divine than others is nothing short of heresy.
Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged	Activity pilgrimage.png Can use the Pilgrimage activity	
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden
200 if Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory.png Mandatory
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Hajj
None	This faith encourages its members to visit earthly locations deemed to be of spiritual significance as a means of demonstrating reverence for [High God].
Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites	
Activity pilgrimage.png Can use the Pilgrimage activity
 Can use the Perform a Ritual Sacrifice decision
 +75% Pilgrimage Cost
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged
200 if Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory.png Mandatory
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Hajj
None	Adherents of this faith prefer the comfort and stability of routine rites at local shrines over the hazards and strain of lengthy pilgrimages.
Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory.png Mandatory	
Activity pilgrimage.png Can use the Pilgrimage activity
 Additional Piety from Pilgrimages
 The Pilgrim trait grants additional bonuses
 -25% Monthly Piety
 -5 Same Faith Opinion
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites
200 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory.png Mandatory
No Muslim religion	It is expected that all able-bodied adherents complete a spiritual journey to a holy place as soon as they are able. Failing to do so represents a failure to submit oneself to [High God].
Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Hajj	
Activity pilgrimage.png Can use the Pilgrimage activity
Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Can use the Hajj Pilgrimage variant
 Additional Piety from Pilgrimages
 The Hajji trait grants additional bonuses
 Characters gain the Hajji trait if their realm capital is Mecca
 -25% Monthly Piety
 -5 Same Faith Opinion
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage forbidden.png Forbidden
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage encouraged.png Encouraged
400 if Doctrine pilgrimage local rites.png Local Rites
200 if Doctrine pilgrimage mandatory hajj.png Hajj
 Muslim religion	It is expected that all able-bodied Muslims complete a Hajj to Mecca during their lifetime. While special exemptions are often made, any Muslim who fails to complete a Hajj will be looked upon with skepticism.
Theism	Doctrine monotheist.png Monotheist	
Yes Considers faiths from other religious families evil
No Cannot have Mandala government
300 if Doctrine monotheist.png Monotheist
1350 if Doctrine polytheist.png Polytheist
None	Only one god is worshipped. Other so-called 'gods' are at best empty idols, and at worst attempts by some malign deceiver to tempt the faithful away from proper worship of [High God].
Doctrine polytheist.png Polytheist	
Yes Considers faiths from other religious families hostile
 Can have Mandala government
1350 if Doctrine monotheist.png Monotheist
300 if Doctrine polytheist.png Polytheist
None	The cosmos is full of powerful deities and spirits. There may be a set of gods established in a clear pantheon, but it may be that the spiritual world is uncountable, pervades everything around us, and does not even have named gods.
Religion doctrines
Certain religions have a sixth main doctrine, which determines faith hostility between its faiths.

Category	Doctrine	Effects	 Max piety cost	Religion	Description
Muhammad's Succession	Muhammad succession sunni doctrine.png Sunni	
 Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
 Considers faiths with the same head of faith to be righteous
0 if  Sunni
200 if any other
 Islam	Abu Bakr was chosen by the Ummah as their rightful leader, both politically and religiously.
Muhammad succession shia doctrine.png Shia	
 Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
 Considers faiths with the same head of faith to be righteous
0 if  Shia
200 if any other
 Islam	Ali was named by Muhammad as the leader of the Ummah, and only through him can the lineage of spiritual leadership be traced.
Muhammad succession muhakkima doctrine.png Muhakkima	
 Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
 Considers faiths with the same head of faith to be righteous
0 if  Muhakkima
200 if any other
 Islam	Ali was Muhammad's rightful successor, and his acceptance of arbitration during the First Fitna therefore goes against the will of Allah! Only He can judge a suitable leader for us.
Muhammad succession zandaqa doctrine.png Zandaqa	
 +5 Advantage against co-religionists
 Considers faiths with the same head of faith to be righteous
0 if  Zandaqa
200 if any other
 Islam	Though we may trace the line of the Prophet correctly or not according to other Muslims, our beliefs mark us as outcasts regardless. Let the sinners call us Zandaqa: we know the truth!
Halakha Authority	Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Rabbinic	
 +5 Clergy Opinion
 -10% Temple Buildings Construction Cost
Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Considers faiths with the Samaritan doctrine to be evil
0 if Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Rabbinic
500 if Temple authority toric icon.png Toraic
500 if Temple authority kohanim icon.png Kohenimic
1000 if Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Samaritan
 Judaism	Rabbinic Jews believe that the Halakha can be interpreted by the Rabbis alone. They believe in the Written Torah and the Oral Torah, passed on through the Rabbis. All Rabbinic belief is codified in the Babylonian Talmud, which is held as the primary source from which Halakha is interpreted and distributed.
Temple authority toric icon.png Toraic	
 Makes Scholar a virtue
 −10% Artifact decay reduction
Temple authority toric icon.png Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Considers faiths with the Samaritan doctrine to be evil
0 if Temple authority toric icon.png Toraic
500 if Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Rabbinic
500 if Temple authority kohanim icon.png Kohenimic
1000 if Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Samaritan
 Judaism	Toraic Judaism rejects the Talmud and the Oral Torah, passing authority to the written Torah alone. Rabbis can not change or adapt the Halakha, their duty is solely to interpret the Torah's literal meaning.
Temple authority kohanim icon.png Kohenimic	
 +5 Same Culture Opinion
Temple authority kohanim icon.png Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray
Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Considers faiths with the Samaritan doctrine to be evil
0 if Temple authority kohanim icon.png Kohenimic
500 if Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Rabbinic
500 if Temple authority toric icon.png Toraic
1000 if Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Samaritan
 Judaism	Kohenimic Judaism asserts that the Kohen are the supreme authority on all religious matters, including the Halakha. Kohen must be patrilineally descended from Aaron, Moses' brother.
Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Samaritan	
 -10 Different Faith Opinion
 +10 Same Faith Opinion
 +5% Domain Taxes if same faith
 +10% Levy Reinforcement rate if same faith
Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be righteous
Considers faiths with any other doctrine to be evil
0 if Temple authority samaritan torah icon.png Samaritan
1000 if Temple authority rabbinic icon.png Rabbinic
1000 if Temple authority toric icon.png Toraic
1000 if Temple authority kohanim icon.png Kohenimic
 Judaism	The Samaritans reject the authority of the Torah altogether, instead granting supreme authority to the Samaritan Torah. Their rejection of the Torah causes them to be universally seen by their fellows as heretics.
Good and Evil	Doctrine major branch behdin.png Behdin	Doctrine major branch behdin.png Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray	
600 if Doctrine major branch behdin.png Behdin
1800 if Doctrine heretic branch zandik.png Korramdin
 Zoroastrianism	Though we might differ on some of the pecularities of practice, do we mainline Zoroastrians not agree on the fundamentals of loyalty to Ahura Mazda?
Doctrine heretic branch zandik.png Korramdin	 +5 Advantage against co-religionists	200	 Zoroastrianism	The Behdin call us heretics, outcasts, and subversives. Though nothing binds us together but their scorn, righteousness dictates our resistance and their disdain hardens our hearts.
Ecumenism	Doctrine ecumenical christian.png Ecumenism	 Considers faiths with the same doctrine to be astray	0	
 Christianity
Yes Requires the Rite tenet
Our religious leaders have historically been engaged in inter-faith dialogs to increase cooperation amongst the different Christian denominations.
Marriage doctrines
See also: Marriage
Marriage doctrines determine who a character can marry, when can they marry or divorce, and the status of children born out of formal relationships.

Category	Doctrine	Effects	 Max piety cost	Description
Marriage Type
Doctrine marriage type.png	Monogamous	
 Characters can have one spouse
 -40 Opinion if spouse has secondary spouses and can divorce them
 -15 Opinion if spouse has a concubines and can divorce them
An event when first marrying gives a choice between +350  prestige or a scaled amount of  gold
200 if Monogamous
400 if Polygamous
400 if Consorts & Concubines
Marriage is a sacred bond between two individuals. Attempting to form such a bond with multiple people at once is sacrilege.
Polygamous	
 Characters can have one primary spouse and 3 secondary spouses
 -15 Opinion if spouse has a concubines and can divorce them
 Having fewer spouses than required by the primary title rank gives -0.50 Piety per missing spouse
400 if Monogamous
200 if Polygamous
400 if Consorts & Concubines
Since marriage is a holy union, having multiple marriages is clearly more holy than having just a single marriage — so long as each marriage is holy in and of itself.
Consorts & Concubines	
 Characters can have one spouse
Yes Rulers can have up to three (male) consorts or (female) concubines
 -40 Opinion if spouse has secondary spouses and can divorce them
 Having fewer consorts/concubines than required by the primary title rank gives -0.10 Prestige per missing consort/concubine
400 if Monogamous
400 if Polygamous
200 if Consorts & Concubines
Marriage is a sacred bond, but as long as their spouse takes priority one may be permitted to have concubines or consorts to engage with as well.
Divorce
Doctrine divorce.png	Disallowed	
No Characters cannot divorce
100 if Disallowed
200 if Must be Approved
300 if Always Allowed
The vows of marriage are final and binding. Only death may do us part.
Must be Approved	
 If there is a spiritual head of faith, characters require its approval to divorce
Yes If there is no spiritual head of faith, characters require the approval of the House Head or Dynasty Head to divorce
200 if Disallowed
100 if Must be Approved
200 if Always Allowed
While the bonds of marriage should not be taken lightly, extenuating circumstances can sometimes make divorce a necessity.
Always Allowed	
 Characters can divorce at the cost of 100 Piety
300 if Disallowed
200 if Must be Approved
100 if Always Allowed
Marriage is merely a partnership between two people, and like all partnerships, can be ended at will.
Bastardry
Doctrine bastardry.png	No Bastards	
 Children born outside marriage or concubinage have the Wild Oat trait
200 if No Bastards
400 if Legitimization
600 if No Legitimization
Blood determines lineage, not marriage. Children born out of wedlock are just as legitimate as any other.
Legitimization	
 Children born outside marriage or concubinage have the Bastard trait
 House Heads and Dynasty Heads can replace the trait with Legitimized Bastard
400 if No Bastards
200 if Legitimization
400 if No Legitimization
Marriage is holy, so children born outside of it must be blessed in another way if they are to be considered legitimate.
No Legitimization	 Children born outside marriage or concubinage have the Bastard trait	
600 if No Bastards
400 if Legitimization
200 if No Legitimization
The bonds of marriage are sacrosanct, and children born outside of wedlock will always be illegitimate.
Consanguinity
Doctrine consanguinity.png	Lineal Prohibition	
No Characters cannot marry family or dynasty members
Secret deviancy.png Characters having sexual relations with family or dynasty members will gain the Incest secret
300 if Lineal Prohibition
300 if Close-kin Taboo
600 if Cousin Marriage
900 if Avunculate Marriage
1350 if Unrestricted Marriage
It is strictly forbidden to marry another with whom your share a surname and common ancestry, no matter how distantly related, nor is it acceptable to marry those of other surnames proximate through blood.
Close-kin Taboo	
No Characters cannot marry family members
Secret deviancy.png Characters having sexual relations with family members will gain the Incest secret
300 if Lineal Prohibition
300 if Close-kin Taboo
600 if Cousin Marriage
900 if Avunculate Marriage
1350 if Unrestricted Marriage
It is a sin to permit two relatives to marry each other or engage in sexual relationships.
Cousin Marriage	
 Characters can marry cousins, but not other family members
Secret deviancy.png Characters having sexual relations with family members, except cousins, will gain the Incest secret
600 if Lineal Prohibition
600 if Close-kin Taboo
300 if Cousin Marriage
600 if Avunculate Marriage
900 if Unrestricted Marriage
Cousins may be related, but distantly enough that it is acceptable for them to marry in order to preserve their lineage.
Avunculate Marriage	
 Characters can marry cousins, aunts/nephews or uncles/nieces, but not close family members
Secret deviancy.png Characters having sexual relations with close family members will gain the Incest secret
900 if Lineal Prohibition
900 if Close-kin Taboo
600 if Cousin Marriage
300 if Avunculate Marriage
600 if Unrestricted Marriage
As long as they are not directly related, family members are permitted to marry each other for the good of the dynasty.
Unrestricted Marriage	Yes Characters can marry all family members	
1350 if Lineal Prohibition
1350 if Close-kin Taboo
900 if Cousin Marriage
600 if Avunculate Marriage
300 if Unrestricted Marriage
It is natural and healthy for family members to love each other, and those who say that love should be restricted to non-sexual relationships are fools.
Crime doctrines
Crime doctrines determine whether certain traits are accepted, shunned, crimes or virtues.

If the trait is a crime then characters will keep it secret. If discovered, the character can be blackmailed for a  Strong Hook. If the trait is exposed the character will lose  Opinion with all characters whose faith has the doctrine and they'll be considered a criminal.
If the trait is a shunned then characters will keep it secret. If discovered, the character can be blackmailed for a  Weak Hook. If the trait is exposed the character will lose  Opinion with all characters whose faith has the doctrine.
If the trait is accepted then characters will be open about it. If the character is a vassal or courtier then their liege's faith much also consider it accepted or virtuous for this to happen.
If the trait is a virtuous then characters will be open about it and gain bonuses for having the trait. If the character is a vassal or courtier then their liege's faith much also consider it accepted or virtuous for this to happen.
Category	Trait	Doctrine	 Max piety cost	Description
Doctrine homosexuality.png Same-Sex Relations	 Sodomite	Crime	
200 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
600 if Accepted
The sinful desires of sodomites are a danger to society itself, so they shall be punished and locked away for their transgressions
Shunned	
400 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
400 if Accepted
It is unnatural for two men to engage in sexual relations with one another, regardless of the circumstances.
Accepted	
600 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
Love transcends physicality into something so profound and wondrous that it cannot be restricted by mere gender.
Doctrine adultery men.png Male Adultery	
 Adulterer (if married)
 Fornicator (if unmarried)
Crime	
200 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
600 if Accepted
It is a crime for men to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, and they shall be punished accordingly.
Shunned	
400 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
400 if Accepted
It is sinful for men to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, but like all sins it is the divine who must judge them for their failings.
Accepted	
600 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
There is nothing inherently wrong about a man deciding to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, so the decision is his alone.
Doctrine adultery women.png Female Adultery	
 Adulterer (if married)
 Fornicator (if unmarried)
Crime	
200 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
600 if Accepted
It is a crime for women to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, and they shall be punished accordingly.
Shunned	
400 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
400 if Accepted
It is sinful for women to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, but like all sins it is the divine who must judge them for their failings.
Accepted	
600 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
There is nothing inherently wrong about a woman deciding to engage in intercourse outside of marriage, so the decision is hers alone.
Doctrine deviancy.png Deviancy	 Deviant	Crime	
100 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
300 if Accepted
450 if Virtuous
It is clear that there is only one proper way to love another. Any deviations from that form are sinful and should be punished.
Shunned	
200 if Criminal
100 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
300 if Virtuous
There are some sexual practices which are simply abnormal and strange. It stands to reason that people with those desires are equally abnormal and strange.
Accepted	
600 if Criminal
400 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
400 if Virtuous
Love is beautiful and sacred, no matter the form it takes. Everyone should be permitted to love and do as thou wilt.
Virtuous	
4500 if Criminal
3000 if Shunned
2000 if Accepted
1000 if Virtuous
The pleasures of the flesh bring us closer to the divine, and thus those who are unshackled by conventional desires are the height of virtue in our faith.
Doctrine witchcraft.png Witchcraft	 Witch	Crime	
100 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
300 if Accepted
450 if Virtuous
Only the divine have the right to work miracles on this earth. Any who make profane attempts to do the same shall be punished for their hubris and arrogance.
Shunned	
200 if Criminal
100 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
300 if Virtuous
The divine have the rightful jurisdiction over supernatural forces in this world, so any attempt to coerce those forces into obeying a mortal's will is inherently misguided.
Accepted	
300 if Criminal
200 if Shunned
100 if Accepted
200 if Virtuous
Magic fills the world around us, and it is our right and our privilege to engage with it the way our ancestors did.
Virtuous	
4500 if Criminal
3000 if Shunned
2000 if Accepted
1000 if Virtuous
To practice witchcraft is to put one's own soul in danger from evil spirits. For their bravery in this necessary aspect of keeping our own souls clean, witches are to be venerated.
Doctrine kinslaying.png Kinslaying	
 Kinslayer
 Familial Kinslayer
 Dynastic Kinslayer
Dynastic is Criminal	
200 if Dynastic is Criminal
400 if Familial is Criminal
600 if Close Kin is Criminal
900 if Shunned
1400 if Accepted
All kin are bound by blood, and to kill even a distant relative is a grievous crime against the entire dynasty. Such transgressions will not be forgotten.
Familial is Criminal	
400 if Dynastic is Criminal
200 if Familial is Criminal
400 if Close-kin is Criminal
600 if Shunned
900 if Accepted
The murder of one's own family is one of the most abhorrent crimes one can commit. Anyone who does such a thing will be severely punished.
Close-kin is Criminal	
600 if Dynastic is Criminal
400 if Familial is Criminal
200 if Close Kin is Criminal
400 if Shunned
600 if Accepted
Fratricide and acts like it can not be tolerated in a just and righteous society. Those who commit such offenses will be punished.
Shunned	
900 if Dynastic is Criminal
600 if Familial is Criminal
400 if Close-kin is Criminal
200 if Shunned
400 if Accepted
While it is appalling to murder one's own relatives, such acts are not inherently more criminal than any other murder.
Accepted	
1400 if Dynastic is Criminal
900 if Familial is Criminal
600 if Close-kin is Criminal
400 if Shunned
200 if Accepted
The murder of one's family is no different from any other murder, and shall be treated in the same way.
Clerical doctrines
Clerical doctrines have various effects that only apply to court chaplains, realm priests, temple holders, and characters with the  Monk trait.

Category	Doctrine	Effects	 Max piety cost	Description
Doctrine clerical function.png Clerical Function	Control	
 +20% Clergy Control Growth
100 if Control
200 if Alms and Pacification
200 if Recruitment
The priest derives its authority from the divine, and that still applies here on Earth.
Alms and Pacification	
 -5% Clergy Domain Taxes
 +10 Clergy Popular Opinion
200 if Control
100 if Alms and Pacification
200 if Recruitment
Our priests are entrusted with ensuring that the poor and downtrodden have sufficient food and shelter when they can not provide it for themselves.
Recruitment	
 Members of the Clergy can serve as Commanders or Knights
 +4 Clergy Prowess
 −3% Clergy Domain Taxes (Same Faith)
 +30% Clergy Levy Reinforcement Rate (Same Faith)
200 if Control
200 if Alms and Pacification
100 if Recruitment
Every able-bodied person has a duty to take up arms and defend our faith, and it is the responsibility of our priests to remind everyone of this.
Doctrine clerical gender.png Clerical Gender	Only Men	
No Women cannot be granted temple holdings
No Women cannot be appointed as court chaplains or realm priests
No Women cannot be Spiritual heads of faith
100 if Only Men
200 if Either
300 if Only Women
Only men can shoulder the great responsibility of serving as priests of our faith.
Either	
Yes All characters can be granted temple holdings
Yes All characters can be appointed as court chaplains or realm priests
200 if Only Men
100 if Either
200 if Only Women
Anyone who has felt the call of the divine should be able to serve as a priests, no matter their gender.
Only Women	
No Men cannot be granted temple holdings
No Men cannot be appointed as court chaplains or realm priests
No Men cannot be Spiritual heads of faith
300 if Only Men
200 if Either
100 if Only Women
Only women are wise enough interpret the divine will and serve as priestesses of our faith.
Doctrine clerical marriage.png Clerical Marriage	Allowed	Yes Clergy members can marry	
100 if Allowed
300 if Disallowed
Marriage is a holy institution, and priests should be able to take part in it just like any other faithful adherent.
Disallowed	No Clergy members cannot marry	
300 if Allowed
100 if Disallowed
Becoming a priest means devoting one's life to the divine. It is inherently unfaithful to consider taking a mortal spouse in addition to that.
Doctrine clerical succession.png Clerical Appointment	Temporal, Revocable	
 Court chaplains and realm priests are appointed by the Liege
Yes Court chaplains and realm priests can be fired or replaced
300 if Temporal, Revocable
900 if Spiritual, Revocable
900 if Temporal, for Life
1350 if Spiritual, for Life
Priests are ultimately servants of the realm, and so should be able to be hired and fired by their liege as any other vassal.
Spiritual, Revocable	
Doctrine spiritual head.png Court chaplains and realm priests are appointed by the head of faith
Yes Court chaplains and realm priests can be fired or replaced after 10 years
900 if Temporal, Revocable
300 if Spiritual, Revocable
1350 if Temporal, for Life
900 if Spiritual, for Life
While the head of faith should appoint all priests, secular rulers should still be able to fire those who fail them.
Temporal, for Life	
 Court chaplains and realm priests are appointed by the liege
No Court chaplains and realm priests cannot be fired or replaced
900 if Temporal, Revocable
1350 if Spiritual, Revocable
300 if Temporal, for Life
900 if Spiritual, for Life
While a ruler should be able to select their own priests, their responsibilities are holy and sacred, and their appointment should not be subject to revocation.
Spiritual, for Life	
Doctrine spiritual head.png Court chaplains and realm priests are appointed by the head of faith
No Court chaplains and realm priests cannot be fired or replaced
1350 if Temporal, Revocable
900 if Spiritual, Revocable
900 if Temporal, for Life
300 if Spiritual, for Life
Priests are servants of the divine, and as representative of the divine, the choice that the head of faith makes for the position is final and absolute.
Doctrine funeral.png Funerary Tradition	Stoic Burial	 +25% Piety from Funeral activities	
200 if Stoic Burial
400 if Bewailing Burial
400 if Cremation
400 if Sky Burials
600 if Mummification
600 if Family Rites
The body has died, but the soul lives on. Death is not a time for grief and lamentation, but rather a funeral is to honor the dead by committing their body to the earth in a quiet, humble ceremony.
Bewailing Burial	 +200% Stress Loss from Funeral activities	
400 if Stoic Burial
200 if Bewailing Burial
400 if Cremation
400 if Sky Burials
600 if Mummification
600 if Family Rites
The soul has begun its long journey to [afterlife name] and we will never see them again in the living world. It is imperative that all who knew the dead gather and offer their grief in a public show of bewailment. This both honors the dead and cleanses our souls of the grief felt by their departure.
Cremation	 -50% Cost for Funeral activities	
400 if Stoic Burial
400 if Bewailing Burial
200 if Cremation
400 if Sky Burials
600 if Mummification
600 if Family Rites
From ashes we came, to ashes we return. The body of our deceased is disposed of in a great funeral pyre, and the resulting ashes are spread across the earth to continue the journey of the dead.
Sky Burials	
 +50 Piety from Funerals held in Mountains or Desert Mountains terrain
Building tower of silence 2.png Can construct Charnel Grounds duchy buildings
Building tower of silence.png Can construct Great Tower of Silence duchy buildings
 Small Disease Resistance Health Boost
400 if Stoic Burial
400 if Bewailing Burial
400 if Cremation
200 if Sky Burials
600 if Mummification
600 if Family Rites
The dead should not be imprisoned underground — it is far better to allowed them to be consumed by scavenging birds, where in a final act of generosity they can feed the world which fed them.
Mummification	
 +100% Cost for Funeral activities
 -90% Piety from Funeral activities (does not affect events)
Yes Funeral gives a choice between an artifact or 250 Piety
400 if Stoic Burial
400 if Bewailing Burial
400 if Cremation
400 if Sky Burials
300 if Mummification
600 if Family Rites
The body has ceased to function, but it is still the vessel by which the spirit will journey to [afterlife name]. The physical form therefore must be as constant as the soul, awaiting the judgement of [high god name].
Family Rites	 Funeral activity events may give Merit	
400 if Stoic Burial
400 if Bewailing Burial
400 if Cremation
400 if Sky Burials
600 if Mummification
150 if Family Rites
Death is a period of mourning and ritual for those who live. Hierarchy and seniority matter as much in death as in life; it is important to venerate those more elderly even after their passing, and to be seen venerating in the correct ways.
Coronation Tradition
DLC Coronations.png	Available only with the Coronations DLC enabled.
The Coronation Tradition doctrine decides who can use what activity variant when planning a Activity coronation.png Coronation activity. Changing the doctrine when creating a new faith has a base cost of 400  Piety regardless of the current faith's doctrines.

Doctrine	Coronation type normal icon.png Coronation	Coronation type anointment icon.png Anointment	Requirements	Description
No Anointment	
 King
 Emperor
 Hegemon
No Unavailable		In this faith, no sacred oil touches the brow of rulers - theirs is a path to power without anointing or divine rite.
Anointment Permitted	
 King
 Emperor
 Hegemon
 Emperor
 Hegemon
 Spiritual head of faith	Even Emperors bow to no single ritual — though the Head of Faith may preside, the choice of crowning lies with the throne itself.
Imperial Anointment	 King	
 Emperor
 Hegemon
 Spiritual head of faith	To rule as an Emperor beyond all doubt, one must kneel - for only the Head of Faith can bestow that final, unquestioned authority.
Special doctrines
Special doctrines are encountered on some faiths as an additional doctrine.

Doctrine	Effects	Faith	Description
Full Tolerance	Rules.png All faiths are considered Righteous	Rules.png All (Faith Tolerance game setting set to Full)	Everyone is free to choose their own faith. Our differences do not divide us, they make us stronger.
Teachings of Jesus	
Yes Faiths with the Christian Syncretism tenet are considered hostile instead of evil
 +30 Opinion with faiths with the Christian Syncretism tenet
 All Christian	There are those in the world who adhere to the teachings of Jesus without acknowledging his divinity. Though blasphemous, we should still show compassion to these misguided souls, as they may one day become converts to the true faith.
Teachings of the Prophet	
Yes Faiths with the Islamic Syncretism tenet are considered hostile instead of evil
 +30 Opinion with faiths with the Islamic Syncretism tenet
 All Muslim	Although they do not follow all of the laws of the Prophet, there are some in this world who are more guided by the will of Allah than they know. With time, these half-converts may even give up their evil ways and become true members of the Ummah!
Teachings of Moses	
Yes Faiths with the Jewish Syncretism tenet are considered hostile instead of evil
 +30 Opinion with faiths with the Jewish Syncretism tenet
 All Jewish	Not all among the gentility dwell in sin. There are those who respect God's chosen people, and these deserve a measure of our respect in turn.
Multireligious Interweaving	
Yes Faiths with the Dharmic Syncretism tenet are considered astray instead of evil
 +30 Opinion with faiths with the Dharmic Syncretism tenet
 All Dharmic
 All Sinitic
Together we are bound not by a single faith, but by the many faiths that make up the religious fabric of our society. Though we may call ourselves different names and follow different paths, some from outside our own belief system have learned to coexist in our society as if they were one of us.
Immaterial Harmony	
Yes Faiths with the same doctrine are considered righteous
Yes Faiths with the Sinitic Syncretism tenet are considered astray instead of evil
Yes Vassals with a different faith are less likely to join Independence and Populist factions
No Cannot have holy orders
 -50% Cost to convert to faiths with the same doctrine
 All Sinitic	There is no conflict between our traditions and the teachings of the Buddha or the sages. One may practice any of them, or even all at once, without spiritual difficulty.
Dismantled Priesthood	
No Cannot recreate the Head of Faith title normally
 Enables a decision to recreate the Head of Faith title
 All Zoroastrian	The High Priesthood of this faith has been completely dismantled. Any attempts to name a High Priest would first require a thorough reconstruction of traditional church structure.
Gnosticism	
Yes Considers other Gnostic and Dualist Faiths to be Righteous instead of Hostile or Evil
Trait temperate.png Makes Temperate a virtue
Trait gluttonous.png Makes Gluttonous a sin
 −5 Stress when granting a County Title
 −15 Stress when granting a Duchy Title
 −65 Stress when granting a Kingdom Title
 −160 Stress when granting an Empire Title
 +2 Learning
 −2 Stewardship
 All Dualist	Through knowledge, the divine spark that rests inside all humans may be liberated and returned to its heavenly source in the spirit-realm.
Jizya	
Yes Unlocks the Jizya vassal contract
Yes Unlocks the Jizya Status tax decree
 +20% Domain Taxes if different faith
 +25% Levy Reinforcement Rate if same faith
 −25% Levy Reinforcement Rate if different faith
 Most Muslim	Military service is for the faithful only, while a tax is levied on all nonbelievers for the protection they are offered.
Naked Priests	Yes Priests and adult characters with high zeal do not wear clothes	
 Digambara
 Yapaniya
Our priests know that clothes entrap the spirit and prevent us from achieving true enlightenment. Only by shedding our garbs can we awaken our souls and experience The Tirthankaras' love.
Rightful Rulers of the World	
Icon piety eastern 01.png −50% Holy war piety cost
Yes Can declare Great Holy Wars if Faith has a Head of Faith
Religion lamaism buddhism.png Buddhism (Become Chakravarti decision)
Religion shaivism.png Hinduism (Become Chakravarti decision)
Religion jainism.png Jainism (Become Chakravarti decision)
We are those who will usher in an era of peace and prosperity for all peoples. We are the rightful rulers of the world.
The Prophecy of Malachi	 Can only recreate the Head of Faith title by decision	 All Jewish except  Samaritan	Under traditional Jewish doctrine, a new High Priest can only be named either with the coming of the Prophet or if a descendant of Aaron fit to serve as priest is found.
Elipandic School	
Yes Christian faiths with Ecumenism doctrine are considered Astray
Yes Christian faiths consider this faith Hostile
 Makes Stubborn a virtue
 +50% County conversion speed in Christian counties
 +1 Learning per Level of Devotion
 Adoptionism (A Storm-Tossed Night event chain)	Preferring to focus on subtle variations in Christology, the Elipandic variant of Adoptionism stresses the importance of precise differences from Trinitarian dogma. A complex distinction well made is considered infinitely better than a simple explanation poorly justified.
Felicitous School	
Yes Christian faiths with Ecumenism doctrine are considered Astray
Yes Christian faiths consider this faith Evil
 Makes Deceitful a virtue
 +50% County conversion speed in Christian counties
 +1 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 Adoptionism (A Storm-Tossed Night event chain)	Felician Adoptionism believes in practicality above purity, understanding that it must work within hostile systems to undermine them. A heinous lie in pursuit of a noble cause is thought to be worth a thousand blunt truths.
Radical School	
Yes Christian faiths are considered and consider this faith Evil
 Makes Arrogant a virtue
 +50% County conversion speed in Christian counties
 +5 Advantage against enemies of the same religion
 Adoptionism (A Storm-Tossed Night event chain)	Radical Adoptionists admit no God but the Father, accept no divinity from mortal flesh, and acknowledge no Christians but themselves. To receive Christ without agreeing on every letter of canon is to acknowledge apostasy.
Notes
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules


Categories: Potentially outdated1.18Religion
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
