
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Duel
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

A duel is a combat outside of battle between two characters. Duels can last either until a character gets wounded or until death. Characters cannot duel if they are children, have the  Blind,  Incapable or  Pregnant trait or a disease trait or are both over 70 and have below 10  Prowess. Characters will wear armor during duels, except for Tribal rulers who will fight shirtless.


Contents
1	Issuing a challenge
2	Mechanics
2.1	Special moves
3	References
Issuing a challenge
Duels can start either as a result of events or if a character issues a challenge, which can only be done once every 5 years. If the recipient refuses the challenge they lose 150  Prestige while the challenger gains 150  Prestige. Acceptance for a duel is determined by the difference in  Prowess as well as the recipient's  Opinion and personality. AI rulers will never challenge someone with 15  Prowess more than them unless their Rationality is very low. Two rulers cannot duel if they are at war with each other.

Type	Challenger requirements (any)	Opponent requirements	Effects
Artifact Challenge	 Claim on one of the opponent's artifacts	 Artifact claimed by the challenger	If the challenger wins they take the claimed artifact.
If the challenged character wins the challenger loses the claim of the artifact.
Sparring	
Chivalry tradition
Futuwaa tradition
 Knight	The victor has a 75% chance to gain a random positive modifier for 10 years and a 25% chance to gain a random negative modifier for 10 years.
Single Combat	
Stalwart Leader perk
Martial Admiration tradition
Druzhina tradition
Khans of the Steppe Nomadic government
DLC All Under Heaven.png Sōryō government
DLC All Under Heaven.png Fragile Peace tradition
DLC All Under Heaven.png Expansion political movement
 Rival or Nemesis	The victor loses  Stress while the loser gains  Stress.
Anger Release	 Irritable trait and stress level 1+		Challenger gains +5  Dread. The victor loses  Stress while the loser gains  Stress.
Punishment	 Wrathful trait	 Criminal (not liege)	If the challenger wins the challenged character is executed if the crime allows execution, otherwise imprisoned.
If the challenged character wins the challenger gains 100  Stress.
Rite of Passage	 Rite of Passage decision	Yes Adult	If the challenger wins it gains +10  Opinion with Vassals and characters of the same culture and -10%  Stress gain for 10 years.
If the challenged character wins the challenger gains +25%  Stress Gain for 10 years.
Prowess Coup	 Attempt to Overthrow Liege decision	 Liege	If the challenger wins it replaces the liege. Loser dies. Personal Champions can be used.
House Head Challenge	Yes House Unity is Impassive, Competitive or Antagonistic	Yes House Head	If the challenger wins it becomes the new house head.
If the challenged character wins it gains a  Weak Hook on the challenger.
Trial-by-Combat	DLC Northern Lords.png Performative Honor tradition	 Criminal (not liege or vassal)	The challenger may choose to duel for either  Gold,  Stress,  Weak Hook or  Death. Personal Champions can be used.
 Accolades on the winning side of a duel gain between +10 and +250 Glory, if the winner has a  Prowess advantage between +4 and -20 or more, respectively. Defeating a  Rival also leads to a +25 Glory gain.

Mechanics
Each duel has two values to keep track of:

Likelihood of Success is a measure of how well a character is doing overall; having a sufficient lead in this at the end of a round results in a victory by skill.
Risk of Injury is a measure of how overextended a character is; having this sufficiently close to the character’s own Likelihood of Success will result in a loss by mistake if a victory by skill failed to happen that round.
Both of these values accumulate over the duel. All duels last between 2 and 4 rounds. Starting from the third round, victory from either method becomes increasingly more likely round by round. If there is still no victor after the fourth round, then instead the character with higher  Prowess wins by Sudden Death. During a duel, either character can gain or lose Duel Edge, which modifies the  Prowess of a character for the duration of that duel.

During each round, both characters will be given three combat moves to choose one from; the selection is weighted primarily via their  Prowess: higher  Prowess makes better, more efficient moves more likely to show. When chosen, these combat moves will add to both of the tracked values in different configurations, and some of them have additional effects. AI characters will choose among the available moves based on their personality:

Characters with high Boldness or Vengefulness will choose the option that offers the best Likelihood of Success
Characters with low Boldness or Vengefulness will choose the option that offers the least Risk of Injury
Characters with high Rationality will choose the middle ground
Characters without high or low Boldness, Vengefulness, or Rationality will choose at random
Combat Move	Likelihood of Success	Risk of Injury	 Prowess	Other effects
Wait & Hope	Low	Medium	0-15	
Unsure Attack	Medium	High	0-15	
Enthusiastic Onslaught	High	Very High	0-15	
Clouded Vision	None	Low	0-15	Adds -4 Duel Edge to the opponent
Headbutt	Medium	High	0-15	Adds -4 Duel Edge to both opponents
Guard	Low	Low	6-20	
Probing Attack	Medium	Medium	6-20	
Onslaught	High	High	6-20	
Put the Boot In	Very High	Very High	6-20	
Surprise Attack	Random	Medium	6-20	
Taunt	None	Medium	6-20	Opponent gains a  Stress Gain modifier
Strict Guard	Low	None	8+	
Confident Attack	Medium	Low	8+	
Expert Onslaught	High	Medium	8+	
Lightning Assault	Very High	High	8+	
Tire Opponent	Low	None	8+	Increases the opponent's Risk of Injury
Attempt Disarm	Low	Medium	12+	Adds -6 Duel Edge to the opponent
Special moves
Special combat moves are either more effective or grant additional bonuses but have additional requirements. If those requirements are met special moves have a 30% chance to appear in the place of a regular move.

Combat Move	Likelihood of Success	Risk of Injury	Requirements	Other effects
Hail Mary	Very High	High	 At least 10 Prowess difference	
Disheartening Speech	None	Medium	 At least 18 Diplomacy skill	Gives 5  Prestige per point of  Diplomacy
In Command	None	Low	 At least 18 Martial skill	Adds -2 Duel Edge to the opponent if has the  Arrogant trait
Adds -4 Duel Edge to the opponent if doesn't have the  Arrogant trait
Like a Viper	High	Medium	 At least 18 Intrigue skill	Increases the opponent's Risk of Injury
Legendary Technique	High	Low	 At least 18 Learning skill	
Silvered Vision	Medium	None	 At least 18 Stewardship skill
 At least 20 Gold
No Character is not Maimed	Costs 20  Gold
Mocking Boast	None	None	 Higher Prestige than the opponent
No Opponent is not Humble	Adds -2 Duel Edge to the opponent
Opponent gains 40  Stress if it has the  Arrogant trait
Opponent gains 20  Stress if it doesn't have the  Arrogant trait
Master of Terrain	High	Low	 Any trait that gives a bonus in the current terrain	Adds +2 Duel Edge
Berserkergang	Very High	Medium	 Berserker trait	Adds -20  Stress
Hard Grit	High	None	Trait shieldmaiden.png Shieldmaiden trait	Adds +4 Duel Edge
Feint & Stab	High	Medium	Trait hunter.png Hunter trait	Adds a +4  Intrigue modifier for 5 years
Butchery	High	Medium	 Raider trait	Gives 2  Dread per every 2 points of  Prowess
Stoic Veteran	Medium	None	 Varangian trait	Adds a  Health Boost modifier for 5 years
Blade Dance	High	Low	Trait blademaster.png Blademaster trait	Gives 5  Prestige per point of  Prowess
Divine Wrath	Low	None	 Zealous trait	Gives 10  Piety if opponent's Faith is considered Righteous
Gives 25  Piety if opponent's Faith is considered Astray
Gives 50  Piety if opponent's Faith is considered Hostile
Gives 75  Piety if opponent's Faith is considered Evil
Fueled by Pain	Medium	Medium	 Deviant trait	Adds +2 Duel Edge if character does not have the Trait wounded 2.png Severely Wounded or Trait wounded 3.png Brutally Mangled traits
Adds +4 Duel Edge if character has the Trait wounded 2.png Severely Wounded trait
Adds +8 Duel Edge if character has the Trait wounded 3.png Brutally Mangled trait
Something to Hide	None	None	 Hook on the opponent
No Duel will not end in death	Adds +4 Duel Edge if holding a  Weak Hook on the opponent
Adds +8 Duel Edge if holding a  Strong Hook on the opponent
An Unexpected Ally	Very High	None	Yes Duel takes place in Africa, Persia, India or Burma
Yes Terrain is Farmlands, Floodplains, Jungle, Oasis or Wetlands	Can only appear once
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: Potentially outdated1.18Warfare
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
