
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Government
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

Nav top.png
Crusader Kings III
Governments
Landed governments
Administrative government.png Administrative
Nomad government.png Nomadic
Celestial government.png Celestial
Meritocratic government.png Meritocratic
Steppe admin government.png Meritocratic Khanate
Japan administrative government.png Ritsuryō
Japan feudal government.png Sōryō
Landless adventurer government.png Adventurer
A government is the system that rules characters and their titles. It determines the laws available to a character as well as any obligations (taxes and levies) a vassal may have to their liege. Governments can only be changed via decisions. Governments are divided into three types:

Landed governments require the character to own landed titles. If a player character loses all their landed titles, they must choose to play as another dynasty member or receive a game over but if the Roads to Power Roads to Power DLC is installed, they will have the option to choose between doing that or changing government to Adventurer. If a character with a landed government inherits a realm of higher rank they will adopt the realm's government.
Domicile governments give their house heads or potentially all rulers a domicile, which allows a player to play as them even if they do not own landed titles. If a ruler changes their government to a landed one, their domicile is sold for  Gold, all title men-at-arms are removed, and if their government used  Treasury or  Herd they are converted to  Gold as well. If a character with a domicile government inherits a realm of higher rank they will not change government.
Non-dynastic governments do not use dynastic succession and as a result are not playable. When a character with a non-dynastic government dies another random character will inherit all titles. If a character with a non-dynastic government inherits a realm of higher rank they will not change government.

Contents
1	Landed governments
1.1	Tribal
1.2	Feudal
1.3	Clan
1.3.1	Tax Jurisdictions
1.3.2	House unity
1.4	Mandala
1.5	Wanua
2	Non-dynastic governments
3	References
Landed governments
Tribal
Tribal governments have access to the Tribal Authority law, unlock Subjugate and Conquest casus belli, and can start a Co-Monarchy. All tribal rulers can raid unless their faith forbids it and gain 100 more  Prestige when they win a battle. However, they cannot construct holdings or use innovations beyond the Tribal Era. Tribal rulers can only use the Confederate Partition succession law but unlock the Challenge the Ruler decision. Tribal rulers have access to an inferior Royal Court.

Development only affects the Supply Limit and does not passively grow in counties ruled by a tribal ruler. Tribal baronies only provide half of their supply limit to armies belonging to other governments.

Tribal governments have the following unique effects:

Tribal rulers pay for men-at-arms using  Prestige instead of  Gold but the maintenance cost is reduced by 30%.
Tribal rulers cannot imprison vassals or courtiers without passing level 2 Tribal Authority.
Tribal vassals provide taxes and levies based on the Liege's Level of Fame.
−50%  Title creation cost.
+0.2 monthly  Prestige.
−20  Opinion with vassals that do not have  Tribal,  Wanua or  Nomadic government
Feudal
Feudal governments can create new holdings and cadet branches, have access to the Crown Authority law, can apply Title Succession laws and can start a Co-Monarchy.

Clan
Clan governments can create new holdings and cadet branches and have access to the Crown Authority law. All powerful vassals will want to be in an Alliance with their liege and will gain -30  Opinion of their liege if they are not. When clan rulers are at peace, they can appoint a Vizier. House heads with this government also unlock interactions to give house members the  Extolled by House or  Accused of Decadence traits.

If a clan ruler is a Dynasty Head, their realm will be named after their dynasty rather than the primary title. This behavior can be disabled in game settings.

Tax Jurisdictions

Tax Jurisdictions
Vassals with Clan government provide taxes and levies via Tax Jurisdictions. If a ruler has vassals with Clan government then the Tax Jurisdictions tab will become available on the sidebar. Each Tax Jurisdiction is made up of a  Tax Collector and up to 12 Taxpayers. Taxpayers are assigned automatically but can be manually added or removed afterwards. Count and Duke rulers can appoint 1  Tax Collector while King, Emperor and Hegemon rulers can appoint 2. Cultures with the Enlightened Magnates or Legalistic tradition can each appoint an additional one, as can dynasties with the first Khvarenah legacy track.png Brilliance legacy. A Vizier, depending on its Stewardship score, can grant between 1 and 5 additional  Tax Collector. Two Innovations, Magistrates and Court Officials, also each grant an additional one. First perk from Avaricious stewardship lifestyle tree - Golden obligation also grants one 1  Tax Collector. Only unlanded courtiers can be appointed as  Tax Collector and only if the faith's View on Gender doctrine allows it. How much taxes and levies a Tax Jurisdiction provides depends on the  Tax Collector's aptitude, which is the following:

+1 per  Diplomacy (max 50)
+1 per  Martial (max 50)
+1 per  Stewardship (max 50)
+1 per  Intrigue (max 50)
+2 per  Learning (max 50)
+5 per 20  Opinion
+10 if  Just
+10 if  Administrator
+10 if  Avaricious
+10 if  Diplomat
+15 if culture has the Enlightened Magnates tradition
+20 if culture has the Family Business tradition
-10 if vassal
Aptitude	 Gold Contribution	 Levies Contribution
Terrible (0-19)	0%	0%
Poor (20-44)	2%	4%
Average (45-74)	6%	12%
Good (75-109)	12%	24%
Excellent (110+)	20%	40%
Each Tax Jurisdiction has a Tax Decree, which determines what all vassals assigned to the jurisdiction pay. Each Tax Decree can only be changed once every 5 years and the menu will show current taxes and levies and taxes and levies should the Tax Decree be changed. Existing vassals will be removed as taxpayers if the new Tax Decree does not allow them.

Tax Decree	 Taxes	 Levies	Liege effects per vassal	Vassal effects	Requirements
Basic Taxes icon
Basic Taxes
A standard tax. Taxpayers pay no more, and no less, than what they are expected to.
+20%	+20%			
Zakat icon
Zakat
Zakat is a luxury tax, usually enforced upon the wealthy as a means to provide additional income for the state and to help those in need.
+40%	+20%	 +1% Domain Taxes	
 +10% Monthly Piety
 -30 Opinion of Liege
Iqta Grant icon
Iqta Grant
Iqta is a tax farming system where local magnates are given wide authority to collect taxes on behalf of the state. In return they must provide significant amounts of soldiers for their liege.
Normal	+10%	 +1% Men-at-Arms Damage	
 -10% Men-at-Arms Recruitment Cost
 -10% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +15 Opinion of Liege
Ghazi Status icon
Ghazi Status
Warriors of the faith and the frontier, the Ghazi collect income from plunder and brigandage, and wage a never-ending war against the religious enemies of the state.
+10%	Normal	
 +2% Monthly Piety
 +1 Zealot Vassal Opinion
 Can raid
 +10% Monthly Income while at War
 +0.5 Monthly Piety
 +15% Raid Speed
 +15% Army Siege Weapon Effectiveness
 +0.25 Monthly Control Growth
 -50% Holy War casus belli cost
 +25% Other casus belli cost
 Only vassals of same faith can be taxpayers
Jizya Status icon
Jizya Status
Jizya is a special tax assigned to dhimmis, religious minorities, in return for the privilege to practice their errant faith in peace.
+100%	-75%		
Yes Liege cannot Demand Conversion
Yes Liege cannot Revoke Title
Yes Liege cannot convert the faith in the vassal's realm
Yes Different faith is not a title revocation reason
 -0.2 Monthly Prestige
Yes Tax Nonbelievers tenet or Jizya special doctrine
 Only vassals of different religion can be taxpayers
Muqata Status icon
Muqata Status
Muqata is a tax system where distant lands are given greater autonomy and taxed less, to promote stability and long-term development.
Normal	Normal	 +0.1 Monthly Prestige	
 +10% Development Growth
 +10 Plague Resistance
 +15 Popular Opinion
 +30 Opinion of Liege
 -5 Danger
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Legacy of Persia DLC
Dehqan icon
Dehqan
Persian magnates within an ancient, decentralized tax collection system, the deqhans closely manage their lands to promote productivity - and their own prestige.
+35%	+35%	 +1% Legitimacy Gain	 +20% Monthly Prestige	DLC Legacy of Persia.png Enlightened Magnates tradition
Maguh Status icon
Maguh Status
An old Sassanian form of district administration, the maguh promote local development in exchange for reduced taxes to the state.
Normal	Normal	 +1% Development Growth	
 -10% Holding and Building Construction Cost
 +0.1 Monthly Development in Realm Capital
 +30 Opinion of Liege
Khvarenah legacy track.png Brilliance dynasty legacy level 4
House unity

Impassive house unity
If a House Head has Clan government, then its house will have an additional mechanic called House Unity, representing how well members of a house tend to get along with each other. It will be displayed for all house members but only those who have Clan government will be affected by its effects. House Unity is increased by taking Unifying Actions towards them and decreased by taking Divisive Actions towards them. House heads also unlock the Steer House Unity decision.

The House Head also gains access to interactions to give and remove from house members the  Extolled by House or  Accused of Decadence trait. Both interactions cost  Piety that scales with how many virtue and sin traits the targeted house member has. Each trait can only be given once per 3 years. If a character with one of these traits becomes House Head the trait is lost.

Unifying actions	Divisive actions
Extol Virtuousness
Abandon hook
Ask to join holy order
Gift artifact
Negotiate alliance
Offer guardianship
Offer to join war
Pay ransom
Stop vassal war
Restore inheritance
Swear oath of true friendship
Sponsor inspiration
Accuse of Decadence
Blackmail
Break betrothal
Claim liege title
Declare war
Expose a secret
Force to join faction
Imprison
Join independence faction
Move to dungeon
Revoke title
Denounce
Disinherit
Accuse of violating sumptuary law
House Unity ranges from 0 to 200 and is divided into 5 levels. All house members who use multiple heirs succession are forced to use the succession law with the same name.

Level	Unity	Border wars policy	Invasion CB	CB cost	Claimant faction acceptance	Lifestyle experience	Dread decay	Other effects	House unity decisions
House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic	0-39	Conditional Join	Unlimited	-30%	+40			
Adults unlock the Challenge House Head interaction
Casus Belli requires one Level of Fame less
+15 House Vassal Opinion for 10 years from Enforce Demands
-10 House Vassal Opinion for 10 years from White Peace
-20 House Vassal Opinion for 10 years from Surrender
Reinforce Army with Loyal Officers
Organize House Members for War
Establish Futuwaa Lodges
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Demand Shared Army Logistics
House unity competitive.png Competitive	40-79	Guaranteed Protection	Every 10 years	-15%	+20	+5%		
Adults unlock the Challenge House Head interaction
House members can use the Fabricate Hook scheme on each other
Enforce Intrigue Network
Organize House Members for War
Establish Futuwaa Lodges
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Demand Shared Army Logistics
House unity impassive.png Impassive	80-119	Guaranteed Protection	Once per lifetime			+10%		
Adults unlock the Challenge House Head interaction
Consult House Members
Improve Taxation
House unity friendly.png Friendly	120-159	Guaranteed Protection	No	+15%	-20	+5%	-20%	
Unlocks the Rescue House Members casus belli for House Head
Unlocks the Unify the House casus belli for House Head
Send Bailiffs
Encourage House to Improve Economy
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Promote Development
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Educate Youth in Mosques
House unity harmonious.png Harmonious	160-200	Guaranteed Protection	No	+30%	-40		-40%	
Unlocks the Rescue House Members casus belli for House Head
Unlocks the Unify the House casus belli for House Head
Placate Vassals
Encourage House to Improve Economy
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Promote Development
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Educate Youth in Mosques
Depending on House Unity, the House Head can use the following House Unity decisions. Each decision can only be used once every 20 years.

Decision	Cost	Effects	House unity	Other requirements
Reinforce Army with Loyal Officers	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier martial positive.png House gains the Loyal Army Officers modifier for 10 years	House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic	
Organize House Members for War	 100 piety	Modifier martial positive.png House gains the Organized for War modifier for 20 years	House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic
House unity competitive.png Competitive	
Enforce Intrigue Network	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier intrigue positive.png House gains the Intrigue Network modifier for 10 years	House unity competitive.png Competitive	
Consult House Members	 100 piety	Yes +10% Base progress and skill impact on councilor tasks for house member councilors	House unity impassive.png Impassive	
Improve Taxation	 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier stewardship positive.png House gains the Improved Administration modifier for 10 years	House unity impassive.png Impassive	
Send Bailiffs	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier county control positive.png House gains the Enforced Bailiffs modifier for 10 years	House unity friendly.png Friendly	
Encourage House to Improve Economy	 100 piety	Modifier stewardship positive.png House gains the Encouraged Economy modifier for 20 years	House unity friendly.png Friendly
House unity harmonious.png Harmonious	
Placate Vassals	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier diplomacy positive.png House gains the Placated modifier for 10 years	House unity harmonious.png Harmonious	
Establish Futuwaa Lodges	 100 piety	Modifier martial positive.png House gains the Established Futuwaa Lodges modifier for 20 years	House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic
House unity competitive.png Competitive	Yes Culture has the Futuwaa tradition
Educate Youth in Mosques	 100 piety	Modifier martial positive.png House gains the Established Madrasas modifier for 20 years	House unity friendly.png Friendly
House unity harmonious.png Harmonious	Yes Culture has the Beacon of Learning tradition
No At war
Demand Shared Army Logistics	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier goods positive.png House gains the Shared Army Logistics modifier for 10 years	House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic
House unity competitive.png Competitive	DLC Legacy of Persia.png Legacy of Persia DLC
 Iranian heritage
Promote Development	 Scaled gold
 200 piety + 20 per landed house member	Modifier county development positive.png House gains the Promoted Development modifier for 10 years	House unity friendly.png Friendly
House unity harmonious.png Harmonious	DLC Legacy of Persia.png Legacy of Persia DLC
 Iranian heritage
Most houses start at 100 House Unity and thus House unity impassive.png Impassive. The following houses are exceptions in 867:

House Abbasid starts at House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic
House Samanid starts at House unity competitive.png Competitive
House Afrighid starts at House unity friendly.png Friendly
House Tahirid starts at House unity harmonious.png Harmonious
House Umayyad starts at House unity harmonious.png Harmonious
Custom characters replacing any of these houses will inherit their House Unity
Mandala
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Mandala governments can create new holdings and cadet branches and ask rulers to become tributaries willingly, and unlock the Capital Temple Complex and Capital Temple Complex Upgrade great projects as well as the Khlon glan court position.png Khlon Glan and Court brahmin court position.png Court Brahmin court positions. They also have access to the Decree law but the only succession available is Mandala Succession. They cannot build or upgrade Holding church.png Temple holdings but can build and upgrade Holding temple citadel.png Temple Citadel holdings instead. Rulers with Mandala government can always designate their heir and it costs  Piety instead of  Prestige. Dynasty Heads with Mandala government also unlock the Southeast asia legacy track.png Divine Aspirations legacy track.

Rulers with Mandala government have 8 levels of  Legitimacy and are affected the same way regardless of their primary title rank. They also inherit the Level of Devotion of their predecessor and can reach the final three Levels of Devotion if their predecessor had the highest Level of Devotion they could reach and died of natural causes or religion and they also unlock the Raze Capital Temple Complex casus belli against each other. Mandala rulers have their  Domain and Vassal Limit capped at 4 and the main way to increase them is by upgrading the Capital Temple Complex.

Every ruler with Mandala government has a Mandala Radiance value, which depends on their Level of Devotion, level of aspect, perks, whether they are independent or not, and number of Capital Temple Complex buildings and decreases with distance from the capital. Mandala Radiance affects the acceptance of other rulers to become tributaries. If the Capital Temple Complex building in the realm capital is ruined, Mandala Radiance will be set to 0.

Every year every Mandala ruler has a 75% chance for a ritual to appear on the map within their borders. The chance is reduced to 25% if the realm is at war. Rituals are optional and performing a ritual will increase  Piety and/or Mandala legitimacy 5.png Legitimacy but failing a ritual will reduce them. Rituals come in three tiers, which determine the size of their reward, and the chance for the ritual to be of a higher tier scales with the Popular Opinion of the county where it takes place. Performing a ritual involves traveling to the barony in question (unless it is the realm capital) and making a choice.

Mandala government has different requirements to create titles. Counties held by tributaries are considered owned, although at least one county from the title being created must be held directly. Creating titles costs  Piety instead of  Gold and requires a sufficient Level of Devotion: 500 Piety and Faithful for  Duchy, 2500 Piety and Devoted Servant for  Kingdom and 5000 Piety and Religious Icon for  Empire.

Only rulers with a faith that has the  Polytheist main doctrine can have Mandala government. If they convert to a faith with the  Monotheist main doctrine, their government is changed to Feudal. In addition, if a Mandala ruler is vassalized by a liege with a different government they will adopt the liege's government.

Every house head with Mandala government can choose a Mandala Aspect, which can be upgraded every 5 years up to 4 times once the aspect's upgrade requirements are met. The aspect can be changed at the cost of 500  Piety but this will reset it back to level 1. If the aspect is upgraded to its maximum level, upon succession the heir will receive the option to automatically pass the Mandala Succession trial challenge from the current aspect.

Level 2 aspects cost 250  Prestige and 1000  Piety and requires the  Pilgrim trait to have at least 25 experience
Level 3 aspects cost 500  Prestige and 2500  Piety and requires the  Pilgrim trait to have at least 50 experience
Level 4 aspects cost 1000  Prestige and 5000  Piety and requires the  Pilgrim trait to have at least 75 experience
Level 5 aspects cost 2000  Prestige and 10000  Piety and requires the  Pilgrim trait to have maximum experience
Aspect	Unlocks	Level	Effects	Upgrade requirements
Creation
Aspect of creation small.png	
Mandala decree expansion.png Expansion Decree law
Mandala decree prosperity.png Prosperity Decree law
 Coerce Contribution scheme
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier
Yes Building construction in tributary baronies
Community	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier lasts 10 years
 +1 Stewardship per Level of Devotion
 +2% Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +1% House Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
Nascence	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier lasts 10 years
 +1 Stewardship per Level of Devotion
 +5% Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +2% House Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +250 Piety per own child born in house
Yes Had 10 children
Yes Built 5 buildings
 250 Gold
Cultivation	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier lasts 20 years
 +2 Stewardship per Level of Devotion
 +7% Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +3% House Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +250 Piety per own child born in house
Yes Had 10 children
Yes Built 10 buildings
 500 Gold
Yes 5 House members
 1 Commissioned/sponsored artifact
Harvest	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier lasts 20 years
 +2 Stewardship per Level of Devotion
 +10% Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +4% House Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +250 Piety per own child born in house
Yes Had 10 children
Yes Built 15 buildings
 750 Gold
Yes 25 House members
 3 Commissioned/sponsored artifacts
Opulence	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Creation modifier lasts 30 years
 +3 Stewardship per Level of Devotion
 +15% Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +5% House Stewardship Lifestyle Experience
 +250 Piety per own child born in house
 Constructing any building gives Piety
Yes Had 10 children
Yes Built 20 buildings
 1000 Gold
Yes 40 House members
 5 Commissioned/sponsored artifacts
Serenity
Aspect of serenity small.png	
Mandala decree prosperity.png Prosperity Decree law
Mandala decree reverence.png Reverence Decree law
 Befriend scheme
Yes Request great project contribution from allies
Yes Request great project contribution from vassals
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier
Peace	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier upgrades every 5 years
 +1 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +2% Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +1% House Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +25% Sway and Befriend Scheme Success Chance
Order	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier upgrades every 5 years
 +1 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +5% Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +2% House Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +25% Sway and Befriend Scheme Success Chance
 5 Friends
Yes 2 Alliances with rulers of equal or higher title rank
 3 Feasts with activity options at level 3
No Offensive wars in the last 5 years
Balance	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier upgrades every 3 years
 +2 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +7% Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +3% House Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +25% Sway and Befriend Scheme Success Chance
Yes Can force a great project contribution every 5 years
 10 Friends
Yes 2 Alliances with rulers of equal or higher title rank
 5 Feasts with activity options at level 3
No Offensive wars in the last 10 years
Holding temple citadel.png Walled Monastery capital holding level
Harmony	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier upgrades every 3 years
 +2 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +10% Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +4% House Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +25% Sway and Befriend Scheme Success Chance
Yes Can force a great project contribution every 5 years
 15 Friends
Yes 2 Alliances with rulers of equal or higher title rank
 7 Feasts with activity options at level 3
No Offensive wars in the last 15 years
Holding temple citadel.png Temple Compound capital holding level
Bliss	
Modifier mandala positive.png Aspect of Serenity modifier upgrades every year
 +3 Diplomacy per Level of Devotion
 +15% Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +5% House Diplomacy Lifestyle Experience
 +25% Sway and Befriend Scheme Success Chance
Yes Can force a great project contribution every 5 years
 20 Friends
Yes 2 Alliances with rulers of equal or higher title rank
 10 Feasts with activity options at level 3
No Offensive wars in the last 25 years
Holding temple citadel.png Fortress of Sanctuary capital holding level
Soulmate.png Soulmate
Destruction
Aspect of destruction small.png	
Mandala decree expansion.png Expansion Decree law
Mandala decree reverence.png Reverence Decree law
Retaliation cb.png Plunder for Contribution casus belli
 Death by combat unlocks next devotion level
Supremacy	
 +1 Martial per devotion level
 -5% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +5% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +5% Levy Size
 +2% House Levy Size
 +2% Martial Lifestyle Experience
 +1% House Martial Lifestyle Experience
Ascendance	
 +1 Martial per devotion level
 -10% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +10% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +10% Levy Size
 +7% House Levy Size
 +5% Martial Lifestyle Experience
 +2% House Martial Lifestyle Experience
 -0.5% House Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +0.5% House Levy Reinforcement Rate
 15+ Martial
 10+ Prowess
 3 Knights with 12+ Prowess
Yes Won more wars than lost
Yes Won 6 wars
Yes Won 10 battles
Bloodlust	
 +2 Martial per devotion level
 -15% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +15% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +15% Levy Size
 +10% House Levy Size
 +7% Martial Lifestyle Experience
 +3% House Martial Lifestyle Experience
 -1.5% House Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +1.5% House Levy Reinforcement Rate
 20+ Martial
 15+ Prowess
 6 Knights with 12+ Prowess
Yes Won more wars than lost
Yes Won 9 wars
Yes Won 15 battles
Warmonger	
 +2 Martial per devotion level
 -20% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +20% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +20% Levy Size
 +12% House Levy Size
 +10% Martial Lifestyle Experience
 +4% House Martial Lifestyle Experience
 -2% House Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +2% House Levy Reinforcement Rate
 25+ Martial
 20+ Prowess
 9 Knights with 12+ Prowess
Yes Won more wars than lost
Yes Won 12 wars
Yes Won 20 battles
Dominance	
 +3 Martial per devotion level
 -25% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +25% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +25% Levy Size
 +15% House Levy Size
 +15% Martial Lifestyle Experience
 +5% House Martial Lifestyle Experience
 -2.5% House Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +2.5% House Levy Reinforcement Rate
Default cb.png Unlocks Conquest casus belli
 30+ Martial
 25+ Prowess
 12 Knights with 12+ Prowess
Yes Won more wars than lost
Yes Won 15 wars
Yes Won 30 battles
Trickery
Aspect of trickery small.png	
Yes All Decree laws
Yes Use Weak Hooks to Reassert Tributary
Icon scheme coerce contribution.png Leverage Contribution scheme
 Death by murder unlocks next devotion level
Cunning	
 +1 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 +2% Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
 +1% House Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
Deception	
 +1 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 +5% Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
 +2% House Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
Yes Can use Piety to bribe agents to schemes
Icon scheme coerce tributary.png Unlocks the Coerce Tributary scheme
 10 Successful schemes
 2 Strong Hooks
 200 Ransomed Gold
Yes 6 Secrets known
Yes 4 House members are married to dukes or above
Mischief	
 +2 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 +7% Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
 +3% House Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
Icon scheme coerce tributary.png Unlocks the Coerce Tributary scheme
Yes Can use Piety to bribe agents into schemes
 Unlocks the Disbelieve Mandala scheme
 20 Successful schemes
 5 Strong Hooks
 600 Ransomed Gold
Yes 9 Secrets known
Yes 6 House members are married to dukes or above
Persuasion	
 +2 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 +10% Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
 +4% House Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
Icon scheme coerce tributary.png Unlocks the Coerce Tributary scheme
Yes Can use Piety to bribe agents into schemes
 Unlocks the Disbelieve Mandala scheme
Yes Can use Piety to force agents into schemes
 35 Successful schemes
 10 Strong Hooks
 1200 Ransomed Gold
Yes 12 Secrets known
Yes 8 House members are married to dukes or above
Yes 3 House members are married to independent dukes or above
Control	
 +3 Intrigue per Level of Devotion
 +15% Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
 +5% House Intrigue Lifestyle Experience
Icon scheme coerce tributary.png Unlocks the Coerce Tributary scheme
Yes Can use Piety to bribe agents into schemes
 Unlocks the Disbelieve Mandala scheme
Yes Can use Piety to force agents into schemes
Icon scheme coerce tributary.png Coerce Tributary scheme can be used on higher rank rulers
 50 Successful schemes
 15 Strong Hooks
 2000 Ransomed Gold
Yes 15 Secrets known
Yes 10 House members are married to dukes or above
Yes 6 House members are married to independent dukes or above
No Another ruler has max Radiance
Wanua
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Wanua governments have access to the Tribal Authority law, unlock Subjugate and Conquest casus belli, and can start a Co-Monarchy. Wanua rulers can sail in major rivers, can raid unless their faith forbids it, and gain 100 more  Prestige when they win a battle. However they cannot construct holdings or use innovations beyond the Tribal Era, can only use the Confederate Partition succession law, and have a starting maximum domain limit of 2. Wanua rulers have access to an inferior Royal Court. Dynasty Heads with Wanua government also unlock the Southeast asia legacy track.png Divine Aspirations legacy track.

Wanua rulers gain access to the  Barter Goods resource, which is used to pay for men-at-arms maintenance. They also unlock the ability to raise their armies as Barterers, which can travel to other rulers' countries to convert  Barter Goods into  Gold at a 2:1 ratio. Hovering over a county while a Barterer army is selected will display how much  Gold will be obtained and its cost in  Barter Goods and hovering over an army that is bartering will display how long will it take for the conversion to be finished. How much will be bartered depends on the size of the army. Barterer armies can be attacked by Raiding armies and if they are defeated the Raiding army will take their Loot. Bartering will give the county the Modifier goods positive.png Recently Bartered modifier for 5 years, which prevents further bartering and gives the following bonuses:

 +10% Holding Taxes
 -10% Building Construction Time
 +0.3 Monthly Development
Yes Cannot be raided
Development only affects the Supply Limit and does not passively grow in counties ruled by a wanua ruler. Wanua baronies only provide half of their supply limit to armies belonging to other governments.

Wanua governments have the following unique effects:

Wanua rulers have a Vassal Limit of 4 regardless of title rank.
Wanua rulers cannot imprison vassals or courtiers without passing level 2 Tribal Authority.
Wanua vassals provide taxes and levies based on the Liege's Level of Fame.
−50%  Title creation cost.
+0.2 monthly  Prestige.
If the DLC is not installed, all Wanua rulers will use Tribal government.

Non-dynastic governments
If a player selects a Herder government.png Herder character to play, government will automatically become  Nomadic when the game starts.

Government	Requirements	Tithe as vassal
Republic icon
Republic
Towns are ruled by the privileged citizens of the burgher class, among whom one is chosen as mayor. While the mayor has significant influence, they depend on popularity to be re-elected.
Holding city.png City holding as realm capital

20% Taxes and 10% Levies
Theocracy icon
Theocracy
In a theocratic government, all authority belongs to a religious institution. It is ruled by a priest or priestess who carries out the will of the divine on Earth.
 Theocratic Clerical Tradition doctrine
Holding church.png Temple holding as realm capital
10% Taxes and 10% Levies if different faith
Taxes and Levies based on the liege's level of devotion if same faith
Holy Order icon
Holy Order
The holy warriors of the orders have dedicated their life to fighting infidels and serving their faith. They may hold castles given to them by pious landholders. The order leader is chosen within the order ranks.
Holy Order title	Can hire their armies for free
Mercenary Company icon
Mercenary Company
Mercenary companies roam the lands in search of employment, and take up arms for the highest bidder. Loyalty is essential to a good reputation, but it only lasts until the end of their contract. The mercenary leader is chosen from within the company's ranks.
Mercenary title	No
Herder icon
Herder
Herders do not concern themselves with any aspects of rulership. They tend to their flock, and just their flock.
Khans of the Steppe Steppe herder	Other rulers cannot use the Demand Pastureland interaction
Realm Priests receive vassal income at a rate of 25% from Realm Priests belonging to their liege's direct vassals. They also provide up to 50% of their income from directly-controlled churches and their vassal priests to their feudal liege, scaled based on opinion.

References


Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules


Categories: Potentially outdated1.18
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
