
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Hooks
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.


Hooks and secrets
A hook represents that a character owes you a favor or that you can coerce them in some way. Hooks can be gained in a variety of ways and can be used to force a character to do something. You can only have one hook on a character at a time. If you gain a new hook and it's a stronger type of hook or lasts longer, it replaces the older one. Having a hook of any kind over an opponent during a non-lethal duel unlocks a special move, Something to Hide. Hook come in three levels of strength. Hooks that are permanent cannot be removed with the Abandon Hook interaction.


Contents
1	Weak hooks
2	Perpetual hooks
3	Strong hooks
4	Spending hooks
4.1	What hooks can't do
5	Secrets
6	References
Weak hooks
Weak hooks can only be used once. For most interactions a weak hook only provides a bonus to acceptance rather than forced action. The hook name has some narrow effects. The Obligation hook halves the monthly base salary of assigned court positions (it does not affect task expenses).

Hook	Duration	Source	Can be fabricated
Blackmail	10 years or until the secret is exposed	Blackmail character interaction over a secret which is a shunned practice	No
Crime Accomplice	10 years	
Coup conspiracy promise
Iberian Struggle events
No
Favor	10 years	Countless events and interactions	No
Obligation	10 years	Activity events	No
House Head	Permanent	House Head over when a child is born	No
Indebted	10 years	Random events	Yes
Manipulation	10 years	Random events	Yes
Threatened	10 years	Random events	Yes
Won Trial-by-Combat	10 years	House Head Challenge or Trial-by-Combat duel	No
Royal Court Violated Sumptuary Law	10 years	Violating Sumptuary Law debate	No
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Involved in Suspicious Activity	10 years	Grand Tour events	No
Roads to Power Excelled at Contract	5 years	Exceptional Success at adventurer contract	No
Roads to Power Follower Oath	Permanent	Adventurer events	No
DLC Coronations.png Heir of Indebted Claimant	Permanent	Install Claimants oath fulfilled	No
DLC Coronations.png Supporter	20 years	Coronation events	No
Perpetual hooks
Perpetual hooks are permanent and can be used multiple times with a five year cool-down between uses. For most interactions a perpetual hook only provides a bonus to acceptance rather than forced action. Perpetual hooks cannot be fabricated.

DLC Wards & Wardens.png Loyal Hostage hooks can be obtained if the A Loyal Hostage story ends positively
DLC Coronations.png Indebted Claimant hooks are obtained on every installed claimant if a ruler fulfills a Install Claimants oath
DLC All Under Heaven.png Filial Piety hooks are obtained at birth if the faith has the Filial Piety tenet
Strong hooks
Strong hooks can be used multiple times with a five year cool-down between uses. For most interactions using a strong hook will force acceptance. Passively, it also prevents the character from joining factions, declaring war, imprisoning or demanding religious conversion from the character holding the hook. Having a strong hook over a Realm Priest forces them to pay maximum contribution.

Hook	Duration	Source	Can be fabricated
Blackmail	Until the secret is exposed	Blackmail character interaction over a secret which is a criminal practice	No
Fabrication	10 years	Fabricate a Hook scheme	Yes
Loyalty	Permanent	
Recognition of Talent tradition (pardon or negotiate release)
Random events
Yes
Loyalty to Predecessor	20 years	Current Regent had 75 Opinion towards the previous liege	No
Oath Debt	20 years	Offered a hook when sending a request	No
Saved Life	Permanent	Activity events	No
Serious Crime Accomplice	Permanent	Coup conspiracy promise	No
Threatened Life	10 years	Random events	Yes
Roads to PowerDLC All Under Heaven.png Saved from Bankruptcy	20 years	Debt Relief character interaction	No
DLC Fate of Iberia.png Best Friend	Until the characters are no longer Best Friends	Best Friend and culture has the Ritualized Friendship tradition	No
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Bestowed Grace	20 years	Grand Wedding events	No
DLC Legacy of Persia.png Caliphal Submission	20 years	Install Loyalist casus belli	No
Roads to Power Mutual Follower Oath	Permanent	Adventurer events	No
Khans of the Steppe Blood Brother/Sister	Until the characters are no longer Blood Brothers	Blood Brother	No
Spending hooks
Hooks can be used in a variety of ways. This list may not be fully exhaustive. Hooks can't be used for everything, though. Below this table there is a list of exceptions.

Action	Requirements	Weak Hook	Strong Hook	Notes
Abandon Hook	Trait forgiving.png Forgiving Trait	-20 Stress	-42 Stress	Gain +50 Opinion with recipient. Despite the name, a Strong Hook can be abandoned every five years.
Arrange Marriage		+100 Acceptance	+200 Acceptance	Marriage arrangement is accepted
Demand/Exchange Hostage		+40 Acceptance	Forced	Hostage(s) depart for new court
Imprison		+30 Acceptance	Forced	Target is imprisoned
Demand Conversion		+50 Acceptance	Forced	
Offer Ward		+100 Acceptance	Forced	
Offer Guardianship		+200 Acceptance	Forced	
Offer Hostage		+0 Acceptance	Forced	
Exchange Hostages		+40 Acceptance	+40 Acceptance	Text incorrectly reads "weak hook used"
Demand Hostage		+40 Acceptance	Forced	
Recall Hostage		+40 Acceptance	Forced	
Ask to Take Vows	Target may be a child	+50 Acceptance	Forced	
Adopt House Member	Cultivated Sophistication cultural tradition	+50 Acceptance	+50 Acceptance	
Revoke Title/Retract Vassal		+40 Acceptance	Forced	Gain title/vassal
Recruit to Court		Forced	Forced	
Invite to Scheme		+100 Acceptance	Forced	
Force to Join Faction	Hook must be Strong	N/A	Forced	Target joins faction
Demand Artifact	Target has an artifact you have a claim on	+100 Acceptance	Forced	
Declare Me Regent		Forced	Forced	You are designated as future Regent
Declare Me Co-Emperor	Roman Ceremonies cultural tradition	+50 Acceptance	Forced	
Ask to Promote Legend		+100 Acceptance	?	
Request Excommunication	Hook is on the Head of Faith + faith has Core tenet chalice.pngCommunion Tenet	+50 Acceptance	Forced	
Request Divorce	Hook is on the Head of Faith (Doctrine spiritual head.pngSpiritual Head Doctrine) or else House Head	Forced	Forced	
Request Claim	Hook is on the Head of Faith + faith Doctrine spiritual head.pngSpiritual Head Doctrine	+100 Acceptance	Forced	
Ask for Gold	Hook is on the Head of Faith + faith Doctrine spiritual head.pngSpiritual Head Doctrine	Forced	Forced	
Invite to Court	Target is unlanded and not married to liege	Forced	Forced	Target joins your court
Demand Council Position	Target is direct liege	Forced	Forced	Able to request council position of choice. Cannot be removed for 25 years.
Request Court Position	Target is direct liege	+100 Acceptance	Forced	Able to request court position of choice. NO REMOVAL PROTECTION.
Modify Vassal Contract	Contract not modified in vassal's lifetime	Forced	Forced	May make one change in user's favor as vassal or liege. Liege does not incur tyranny.
Swing Scales of Power	In a Diarchy	10 Swing	10 Swing	
Declare War	Vassal of liege whose Crown Authority prevents war	Forced	Forced	
Demand Payment	Node stewardship.pngGolden Obligations perk	Forced	Forced	Scaling Gold (10 unemployed, 15 court position, 50 count,
Castrate Kin	Palace Politics cultural tradition + Hook is on the Child	+50 Acceptance	Forced	
Force Vote	Elective Realm	Forced	Forced	Target votes for your candidate for 100 years.
Ask to Influence Candidacy	Administrative Realm	Forced	Forced	Target spends  Influence to support candidate for governorship.
Request Permission to Raid	Administrative Realm, Hook is on top liege	+40 Acceptance	?	
Modify Theme Administration	Administrative Realm, Hook is on top liege	Forced	Forced	
Demand Administrative Government	Administrative Realm	Forced	Forced	
Request Clergy Support	Administrative Realm + Hook is on the Head of Faith	Forced	Forced	
What hooks can't do
Hooks cannot be invoked in many interactions, but these are the most notable.

Action
Call to War
Contract War Assistance
Hire Mercenaries
Offer Peace
Purchase Truce
Offer Vassalage
Invite to Activity
Negotiate Settlement
Request as House Head
Influence Ward Personality
Give Vassal Directive
Trait arbitrary.png Arbitrary rulers may use the Dismiss Hook interaction at the cost of opinion, prestige, and tyranny.

Secrets
Characters acquire secrets when they do something that is a crime or frowned upon. Secrets can be discovered through random events or via the Find Secrets spymaster task. If a secret is discovered, the character who uncovered it has two options. One option is to expose the secret, which will apply negative effects upon the target based on the severity of the secret. The other option is to blackmail the target, which is only possible if both characters don't have the same secret and know the other has the same secret. If the target agrees to the blackmail, the character will gain a  Weak Hook if the secret is Shunned and a  Strong Hook if the secret is Criminal. If the target refuses, the secret will be exposed. Secrets can be shared with members of the same House if the Dynasty has the 4th Coterie legacy track.png Coterie legacy.

When a vassal's or courtier's secret is exposed and severe enough to allow imprisonment and they do not have a  Strong Hook on their liege, the liege will receive the option to instantly imprison them. The chance for AI lieges to choose to imprison depends on their Compassion and relation with the character whose secret was exposed.

Secrets caused by doctrines will be removed and replaced by traits if both the character's faith and their liege's faith (if character is a subject or courtier) accepts the matching trait. The Lover, Is almost certainly an illegitimate child and Is an illegitimate child out of wedlock secrets are removed if a marriage or concubinage makes them no longer valid. The Attempted to murder secret is removed if the target is killed by someone else.

If two characters have the Witch secret or trait, they cannot blackmail each other using that secret. If a character has the Witch secret and knows another character has the same secret, it will unlock an interaction to reveal to them the secret and gain +20  Opinion with them.

If a character is asked to convert to a faith practiced in secret they will always agree.

Secret	Severity
Attempted to murder icon
Attempted to murder
This character has attempted murder.
Doctrine kinslaying.png Depends on who was the target
Murdered icon
Murdered
This character is a murderer.
Doctrine kinslaying.png Depends on who was the target
Raided Estate icon
Raided Estate
This character raided a Noble Family's estate.
 Depends on whether the character had a permit or not
Is gathering power and plotting a coup icon
Is gathering power and plotting a coup
This character is plotting a coup against their liege.
 Always criminal
Is a Cannibal icon
Is a Cannibal
This character consumes human flesh.
Core tenet foodsacrifice.png Depends on whether faith has the Ritual Cannibalism tenet
Is a Deviant icon
Is a Deviant
This character has a predilection for socially unacceptable acts.
Doctrine deviancy.png Depends on the Deviancy crime doctrine
Is a Sodomite icon
Is a Sodomite
This character engages in sexual intercourse with other men/women.
Doctrine homosexuality.png Depends on the Same-Sex Relations crime doctrine
Is Incestuous icon
Is Incestuous
This character has sexual relations with close family members.
Doctrine consanguinity.png Depends on the Consanguinity marriage doctrine
Practices in secret icon
Practices in secret
This character practices their Religion in secret, fearing persecution.
 Depends on whether the character is a member of clergy or not
Is a Non-Believer icon
Is a Non-Believer
This character believes in a false god, or none at all.
 Depends on whether the character is a member of clergy or not
Is a Witch icon
Is a Witch
This character practices witchcraft.
Doctrine witchcraft.png Depends on the Witchcraft crime doctrine
Lover icon
Lover
This character is someone's illicit lover.
Doctrine adultery men.pngDoctrine adultery women.png Depends on the Adultery crime doctrines
Is almost certainly an illegitimate child icon
Is almost certainly an illegitimate child
This character's ancestry is in doubt.
Doctrine bastardry.png Depends on the Bastardry marriage doctrine
Is an illegitimate child out of wedlock icon
Is an illegitimate child out of wedlock
This character is a bastard.
Doctrine bastardry.png Depends on the Bastardry marriage doctrine
Embezzled treasury icon
Embezzled treasury
This character embezzled treasury into personal wealth.
 Depends on whether the character is independent or not
Embezzled resources icon
Embezzled resources
This character misappropriated excessive amounts of resources they were entrusted with.
 Depends on the amount of Gold embezzled
Cheated during Examinations icon
Cheated during Examinations
This character cheated during Examinations.
 Depends on the character's government
Requested Incursion icon
Requested Incursion
Is an instigator of foreign invasions.
 Always criminal
References


Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19Character
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
