
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Innovation
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.


Starting innovations for the Greek culture
Innovations represent technological, legal and ideological advances that a Culture can make. Once an innovation is unlocked, it can be used by any County and Character of the culture which unlocked it. Innovations are grouped into 4 categories: Military and Civic, Cultural, and Regional. The DLC All Under Heaven.png All Under Heaven DLC adds a fifth category - Silk Road.

Military and Civic innovations have a small chance to progress towards being unlocked each month based on multiple factors, the most important being average Development in Counties of the Culture. The second most important factor is the number of neighbor Counties that belong to another Culture which already unlocked an innovation (Exposure). The advancement chance is 5% + Fascination % + 40% if the innovation is the current exposure.
The Culture Head of each culture can choose one innovation at a time to be that culture's Fascination. The Fascination bonus is 20% as a base, plus 1% per the Culture Head's skill that matches the innovation's. With the Scientific perk, these numbers go up to 27% base and 1.35% per the Culture Head skill.
Each culture will also have Exposure to one innovation at a time, picked from among innovations discovered by cultures adjacent and/or sharing religion with the culture. The innovation with Exposure is determined automatically, and cannot be controlled by any character. The Exposure bonus is 40%.
Regional innovations are unlocked when the Culture has a sufficient presence in a certain Region, and remain unlocked even if said territory is lost.
Cultural innovations are always active, but require a certain culture or tradition.
Silk Road innovations are initially available only to Han culture. After Han culture researches them, cultures with Chinese heritage, the Sinophilic tradition or a ruler who controls a hub in a Silk Road situation region with the innovation can research these innovations as well. Other rulers must unlock them by taking the Visit a Silk Road Market decision and passing the skill challenge.
Amount of advancement gained = 0.3 + (average cultural province Development * 0.02) + 0.2 if ahead in era.

Random Innovations by decisions like Unite the Slavs are decided by the in-game date.


Contents
1	Eras
2	Tribal innovations
2.1	Military innovations
2.2	Civic innovations
2.3	Regional innovations
2.4	Cultural innovations
2.5	Silk Road innovations
3	Early Medieval innovations
3.1	Military innovations
3.2	Civic innovations
3.3	Regional innovations
3.3.1	Mural Sextant
3.4	Silk Road innovations
4	High Medieval innovations
4.1	Military innovations
4.2	Civic innovations
4.3	Regional innovations
4.3.1	Fritzware
4.4	Cultural innovations
5	Late Medieval innovations
5.1	Military innovations
5.2	Civic innovations
5.3	Regional innovations
5.4	Cultural innovations
6	References
Eras
Each Culture will be within one of 4 Eras which determine which innovations the Culture can unlock. Once at least 8 innovations from an Era are unlocked and the required minimum year is reached, the Culture will slowly progress to the next Era based on the average  Development in the Culture's counties. If the minimum year is not yet reached innovations from the next era can still be selected by Culture Heads as Fascination but the progress will be much slower.

Rulers with  Tribal,  Nomadic or  Wanua government cannot use innovations later than Tribal Era ones and if a Culture Head has such a government its culture cannot progress to another Era.

Era	Minimum year	Event gold cost	Activity cost	Court amenity cost	Mercenary cost	Traditions	DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Tournament contests	DLC Coronations.png Oathbreaking penalties
Tribal icon
Tribal
The Tribal Era of a Culture predates the emergence of codified laws and an institutionalized government. Rulers with Tribal Government and Nomadic Government can only make use of Tribal Era innovations.
476							
Early Medieval icon
Early Medieval
The Early Medieval Era sees the emergence of professional administrators and a number of important innovations, allowing a Culture to exit the Dark Ages.
900	+25%	+25%	+25%		+1	+1	+20%
High Medieval icon
High Medieval
The High Medieval Era is a time of great technological and administrative progress, seeing towns grow into cities and the rise of the burgher class even as the aristocracy reigns supreme.
1050	+75%	+50%	+50%	+15%	+2	+2	+60%
Late Medieval icon
Late Medieval
The Late Medieval Era marks the zenith of the feudal world. Bureaucrats, artisans, merchants and money lenders are starting to encroach on the power of the old privileged classes, except for the monarchs themselves.
1200	+325%	+75%	+75%	+30%	+3	+3	+200%
Tribal innovations
Unlocking 9 Civic or Military Tribal Innovations is required for the Adopt Feudal Ways and Adopt Clan Ways decisions.

Military innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Bannus icon
Bannus
Based on the authority to command men in battle, the bann gives our rulers the power to compel free men to fight for them, forming a legal basis for the mustering of large armies.
 Martial	
 Unlocks the March Vassal Contract
 Unlocks the Castellan Vassal Contract
 +0.5% Herd Conversion into Horde Riders
 +15% Levy Reinforcement Rate
 +1 Accolades Available
Barracks icon
Barracks
By constructing dedicated buildings for us to quarter our soldiers in we can make sure that we have sufficient space to accommodate our growing armies.
 Martial	
Yes Unlocks all Tribal Era Military Buildings
 +5% Herd Capacity
Earthworks icon
Earthworks
Simple yet effective, building our castles on raised earthen mounds is the best way to ensure we quite literally have the high ground over our enemies.
 Stewardship	
Yes Unlocks all Tribal Era Fortification Buildings
Khans of the Steppe Increased bonus effects from raid intents
Mustering Grounds icon
Mustering Grounds
Simply having people willing to fight for us is not enough to win wars. Setting aside space for people to both train and muster for battle will allow us to support groups of more experienced fighters who can lead us to victory.
 Martial	
 +2 Size of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Max number of Men-at-Arms Regiments
Onager icon
Onager
While slow to load and fire, torsion-powered catapults like these allow us to assail enemy fortifications while staying out of their archers' range.
 Learning	
Unit onager.png Can recruit Onager Men-at-Arms if heritage is not Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Unit ballista.png Can recruit Siege Crossbows Men-at-Arms if heritage is Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Quilted Armor icon
Quilted Armor
Formed of a dozen or more layers of linen stitched together, these jackets can stop even heavy arrows and are an affordable way for us to armor an entire regiment for battle.
 Martial	
Unit heavy infantry.png Can recruit Armored Footmen Men-at-Arms
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Vanguard accolades
 +2% Horde Rider Toughness
Civic innovations
Civic innovations from the Tribal era have different effects depending on the character's government.

Innovation	Skill	Settled government effect	 Nomad government effect
Casus Belli icon
Casus Belli
Might makes right has been the law of the land for generations, but if we have a justification for our wars then we can avoid provoking the ire of our neighbors and the retaliation that often comes with it.
 Diplomacy	
De jure cb.png Can use the Seize De Jure County Casus belli
De jure cb.png Can use the Seize De Jure Duchy Casus belli
De jure cb.png Can use the Seize De Jure County Casus belli
De jure cb.png Can use the Seize De Jure Duchy Casus belli
City Planning icon
City Planning
By designing our cities before we start constructing them, we can create new holdings in strategic locations which are both more functional and aesthetically pleasing than the older ones which haphazardly arose over time.
 Stewardship	
Holding city.png Unlocks Village Center
Holding church.png Unlocks Shrine, Chapel, Megalith
Building market villages.png Unlocks Trading Outposts
 +5% Herd Capacity
 +5% Herd Capacity
Crop Rotation icon
Crop Rotation
By transitioning from the traditional two-field farming model to three-field crop rotation, we can grow more crops each year without depleting the soil on our farms.
 Stewardship	Yes Unlocks all Tribal Era Economic Buildings
 +5% County Fertility Growth

 +5% County Fertility Growth
Currency icon
Currency
Bartering is slow and inefficient; adopting an officially-recognized currency like cowrie shells or metal nuggets will bolster trade and increase the spread of ideas within our realm.
 Stewardship	 +5% Monthly Income from Herd
 +10.0% Development Growth

 +5% Gold from Herd
Gavelkind icon
Gavelkind
Stability and prosperity go hand-in-hand. Instead of having vassals jockey for power when the old monarch passes away, we can define a predetermined, equitable system of inheritance which will eliminate much of the instability which traditionally occurs on succession.
 Diplomacy	
 Can enact the Confederate Partition Law
 +1 Domain Limit
 +1 Domain Limit
Ledger icon
Ledger
As our lands grow, we need a better way to keep track of what we own. Maintaining a ledger of our possessions will ensure that we always know what resources we have at our disposal.
 Stewardship	 +5% Monthly Income from Herd
 +1 Additional Building Slots

 +5% Gold from Herd
Plenary Assemblies icon
Plenary Assemblies
In order to effectively govern, we must bring all free men of the realm together to discuss and resolve legislative matters. Attendance is mandatory, and those who do not come will be fined and forfeit their ability to influence any decision made.
 Diplomacy	
Holding tribal.pngUnlocks Fortified Tribal Hold
Crown authority 1.png Can enact Limited Crown Authority Law
 +2% Vassal Herd Contribution
 +2% Vassal Herd Contribution
Public Works icon
Public Works
Funding the construction of public works like roads, schools, and aqueducts will allow our settlements to grow to larger sizes, ensuring the prosperity of our people for generations to come.
 Stewardship	 Counties reach the maximum Existing Development penalty at 20 Development
 +5% County Fertility Growth

 +5% County Fertility Growth
Regional innovations
Innovation	Skill	Regions	Effect	DLC
Bamboo Bow icon
Bamboo Bow
One of the oldest traditional weapons for Indian footmen is the bamboo bow, which is both cheap to make and easy to carry and maintain. Since the bow is also a favorite weapon of many hunters there is no shortage of experienced archers in Indian armies.
 Martial	India	Unit bowmen.png Can recruit Paiks Men-At-Arms	
Caballeros icon
Caballeros
Andalusian stallions are better at traveling and fighting in rough terrain than other breeds of horses. We can train specialized cavalry regiments which take advantage of this.
 Martial	Iberia	Unit light cavalry.png Can recruit Caballeros Men-At-Arms	
Elephantry icon
Elephantry
Elephants are difficult to raise in captivity, so each mahout must capture their own wild elephants and train them. This means there is a delicate art to properly using these great creatures in battle, but it is an art we are dedicated to mastering.
 Stewardship	
India
South-East Asia
Building elephant pens.png Unlocks Elephant Pens
 Can recruit War Elephants Men-at-Arms
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Elephant Rider accolades
Longships icon
Longships
Our longships are formidable seafaring vessels which can travel almost anywhere and even brave rough weather, giving us exceptional mobility on the seas.
 Martial	Northern Europe	
Yes Unlocks the ability to sail in Major Rivers
Yes Unlocks the ability to Raid over seas if Raiding is allowed
Adventure raid intent.png Unlocks the Adventure raid intent
 -75% Embarkation Cost
 +25% Naval Speed
Sahel Horsemen icon
Sahel Horsemen
The Sahel is a dry and arid plain, where vast distances are often covered with horses. The Sahel Riders are mounted warriors who use light quilted armor and javelins to devastate their enemies. They are quick and can easily brave deserts and drylands.
 Martial	Sahel	Unit light cavalry.png Can recruit Sahel Horsemen Men-At-Arms	
Tiefutu icon
Tiefutu
Known as Iron Pagodas, these heavily armed cavalrymen were introduced to China by the Jurchen Jin dynasty. Pairing skilled horsemanship with heavy armor, they are a fierce enemy on any battlefield.
 Martial	North-East Asia	Unit tiefutu cavalry.png Can recruit Tiefutu Men-At-Arms	
War Camels icon
War Camels
Camels are naturally suited for living in desert terrain, but they aren't inherently creatures of battle. Our breeders and trainers can change this, giving us access to adaptive cavalry which will let us master the sands.
 Stewardship	
Middle East
North Africa
Persia
Building camel farms.png Unlocks Camel Breeders
 Can recruit Camel Riders Men-at-Arms
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Camelier accolades
West African Canoes icon
West African Canoes
The great canoes of West Africa are excellent for navigating rivers and allows us to quickly ferry troops to where we need them.
 Martial	West Africa	
Yes Unlocks the ability to Raid over seas if Raiding is allowed
Yes Unlocks the ability to sail in Major Rivers
 -25% Embarkation Cost
 +10% Raid Speed
Wootz Steel icon
Wootz Steel
Also known as Hinduwani or Seric steel, this carbon-rich metal is excellent for making weapons. Wootz steel is widely traded and is deemed the finest steel in the world. Throughout most of history, it has drawn the attention of Arab, Egyptian, Chinese, and even Roman traders.
 Learning	Deccan India	
Building wind furnaces.png Can construct Wind Furnaces buildings
 +1 Prowess
All-Things icon
All-Things
Among out people, there is a strong tradition of public gatherings of all free, empowered adults, where anyone may raise their grievances with the ruler. Of course, for those who stand tall in the eyes of the smallfolk, there can be power in swaying the mob...
 Diplomacy	Northern Europe	
Yes Can pay Prestige to ignore authority law cooldown
Belligerent Vassal more common
 +5 Tribal Vassal Opinion
DLC Northern Lords.png Northern Lords
Cultural innovations
Innovation	Skill	Cultures	Effect	DLC
Pole Vault icon
Pole Vault
The pole vault, is a simple invention which requires much training and practice to master. A skilled vaulter will be able to propel themselves forward over great gaps and tall rocks, as well as over some fortifications.
 Martial	Guanche	 Can recruit Vaulter Infantry Men-At-Arms	
Table of Princes icon
Table of Princes
The Table of Princes is the royal seat of Bohemian rulers, with the one sitting at the table being recognized as the rightful ruler. Under the code of house seniority, titles were given to the eldest living member of the ruling dynasty.
 Diplomacy	
Czech
Slovien
 Can enact the House Seniority Law and at any Crown Authority
(West Slavic heritage is required to bypass Crown Authority restriction for hybrid cultures)
Repeating Crossbow icon
Repeating Crossbow
Combining steel-tensioned limbs with mechanical draw systems, these advanced bows extended both range and killing power. The innovation heralded the shift from volume-based defense to precision-focused field deployment, empowering professional armies with tools worthy of empire.
 Learning	Han	Unit crossbowmen.png Can recruit Shenbigong Men-At-Arms	
Varangian Adventurers icon
Varangian Adventurers
What do we owe these lands we live in? Nothing! The realm's heart is its people, and do we not deserve the best soil, the greatest treasures, the finest palaces? Having them is as simple as taking them!
 Martial	
Norse
Danish
Norwegian
Swedish
Norman
Estonian
Scandinavian adventure concquest cb.png Can use Varangian Adventure Casus Belli during Tribal Era	DLC Northern Lords.png Northern Lords
Silk Road innovations
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Block Printing icon
Block Printing
Using a series of carved wooden blocks, it becomes possible to assemble an array of stamps that can be used several times over to reproduce the same words and images on any suitable material. This vastly simplifies the process of book production, reducing costs and making the written word that much more accessible to everyone.
 Learning	
Building library.png Scriptorium buildings provide additional bonuses
 +10% Development Growth
 -50% Book Artifact Inspiration Cost
 -50% University Visit Study Materials Cost
DLC Legends of the Dead.png +15% Legend Spread Chance
Champa Rice icon
Champa Rice
Rice requires an abundance of time and water — except for the rice from Champa. This variety grows faster, survives droughts better, and gives a more bountiful yield than practically any other sort of rice known. In some cases, it can even be harvested twice in one year. Properly managed, this rice can boost farms and fuel a population boom.
 Stewardship	
 +15% Development Growth in Wetlands terrain
 -10% Building Construction Cost in Wetlands terrain
 +10% Levy Size in Wetlands terrain
Building rice.png Paddy Fields buildings can be constructed in Wetlands terrain
Building rice.png Paddy Fields buildings provide additional bonuses
Coking icon
Coking
Charcoal is a vital part of smithing, but it needs ample forests nearby in order to reduce wood down into this essential fuel. Coal, heated in something similar to a charcoal kiln, can be reduced down into coke. Coke is just as useful as charcoal in smithing and other industrial fires, without needing to clearcut an entire forest.
 Stewardship	
 -15% Men-at-Arms Recruitment Cost
 -15% Building Construction Cost in Forest terrain
 -15% Building Construction Cost in Taiga terrain
 +15% Development Growth in Forest terrain
 +15% Development Growth in Taiga terrain
Building smiths.png Blacksmiths buildings provide additional bonuses
Building blacksmiths.png Crown Smithies buildings provide additional bonuses
Composite Crossbows icon
Composite Crossbows
As with self bows, the strength of a bow's limb determines the potential power of its draw. By reinforcing the span with horn or even steel, the draw-weight and thus range and power of a crossbow can be made magnitudes higher than any wooden counterpart, as well as making it more hard-wearing and longer-lived.
 Learning	
 +5 Crossbowmen Damage
 +5 Crossbowmen Screen
 +0.1 Crossbowmen Daily Siege Progress
 +5 Shenbigong Damage
 +5 Shenbigong Screen
 +0.1 Shenbigong Daily Siege Progress
Cupellation icon
Cupellation
Specialized high-temperature furnaces can melt precious metals out of mining samples, extracting them from smelted ores and producing a refined sample that can be further examined by assayers. Cupellating ore from a lead mine is the best way to determine the silver content of that mine, and cupellating gold can determine its purity for potential coinage.
 Stewardship	
 +15% Holding Taxes in Hills terrain
 +15% Holding Taxes in Mountains terrain
 +15% Holding Taxes in Desert Mountains terrain
 +15% Holding Taxes in baronies with a Mine special building
Dragon Kilns icon
Dragon Kilns
The best porcelain can only be produced at highly-specialized kilns, located near valuable mining deposits. These kilns are built on steep slopes that help create a vortex of heat to fire the hardest ceramics possible. Although challenging to build, the products they make are some of the most fashionable (and the most lucrative) pottery known to any court.
 Learning	Building dragon kiln.png Unlocks Dragon Kilns duchy buildings
Lacquered Armor icon
Lacquered Armor
Meticulous application of certain resins to armors strengthens them considerably, and helps weatherproof heavier iron plates. While this process has been known for some time, its use has been largely limited to boxes, bottles, and other wares. Lacquered armor represents a new way to protect both soldiers and their equipment.
 Stewardship	
 -5% Heavy Cavalry Maintenance
 -5% Heavy Infantry Maintenance
 +2 Heavy Cavalry Toughness
 +2 Heavy Infantry Toughness
 +2 Skirmishers Toughness
Artifact armor.png Armor artifacts have higher quality
Pharmacopoeia icon
Pharmacopoeia
All good doctors need to know how to produce the right medicines at the right time, using the right ingredients prepared the right way in the right amounts. While this knowledge is often passed down from master to apprentice on an individual basis, writing down how to make specific medicines can help immensely in standardizing and propagating the preparation of different treatments.
 Learning	
 +3 Years Life Expectance
 +5 Plague Resistance
 +20% Personal Physician Treatment Effectiveness
Sericulture icon
Sericulture
The art of silk production is a complex but very rewarding process, the knowledge of which is jealously guarded by those who profit from their mastery of this industry.
 Stewardship	
Domicile magnanery.png Unlocks the Mulberry Copse domicile building
 +0.10 Monthly Prestige per Legitimacy Level
Royal Court -50% Court Fashion Cost
Waterworks icon
Waterworks
Water is the life giver, but has many uses besides quenching thirst or irrigating fields. Artfully harnessed, the sky-fallen resource may power machines many times stronger than any livestock, facilitate travel and trade along man-made canals, or simply keep keep bustling streets sanitary and livable.
 Stewardship	
 +5 Plague Resistance
Building waterworks.png Unlocks Water Management buildings
Early Medieval innovations
Military innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Arched Saddle icon
Arched Saddle
Light cavalry are a force to be reckoned with, but they do not truly exploit the potential of the warhorse. Arched saddles allow us to field heavily armored warriors with couched lances, which lets them take full advantage of their momentum as they charge into enemy lines.
 Martial	
Unit heavy cavalry.png Can recruit Armored Horsemen Men-at-Arms
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Lancer accolades
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Unlocks the Joust Contest for Grand Tournaments when combined with Horseshoes
Battlements icon
Battlements
Beyond fortifying just the keep itself, building a durable outer wall which can be safely manned by our archers will give our castles an extra layer of protection against attackers.
 Stewardship	
Yes Unlocks all Early Medieval Era Fortification Buildings
 Unlocks the Fortification Rights Feudal Contract
 -5.00% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
Household Soldiers icon
Household Soldiers
As our noble families grow in power, they need soldiers to enforce their will. Establishing an order of dedicated household soldiers will ensure that we have troops which are better trained and equipped than a standard levy.
 Martial	
 +3 Size of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Max number of Men-at-Arms Regiments
Horseshoes icon
Horseshoes
A horse with a split hoof will quickly go lame and be unable to work or be ridden into battle. By shoeing our horses with bronze or iron plates, we can keep their hooves healthy and protected from damage.
 Martial	
 +10% Movement Speed
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Unlocks the Joust Contest for Grand Tournaments when combined with Arched Saddle
Mangonels icon
Mangonels
A significant improvement to our existing catapult designs, traction-powered mangonels are much faster to load and fire than torsion-powered machines.
 Learning	
Unit mangonel.png Can recruit Mangonels Men-at-Arms if heritage is not Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Unit cloud ladder.png Can recruit Cloud Ladders Men-at-Arms if heritage is Chinese, Korean or Japonic
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Besieger accolades
Stone Forts icon
Stone Forts
Scattered across the countryside, burhs are important fortified settlements we can use both to muster troops and to serve as administrative centers.
 Stewardship	
Yes Unlocks all Early Medieval Era Military Buildings
 +5% Levy Size
Civic innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Armillary Sphere icon
Armillary Sphere
Comprised of a spherical framework of moving rings, these devices allow us to chart and predict the movement of the heavens. While a fascinating astrological device in its own right, this knowledge will also help aid our captains when navigating waters far from land.
 Learning	 +25% Naval Speed
Chronicle Writing icon
Chronicle Writing
No more will the stories of our family's exploits be passed down just through oral tradition. We will keep a record of all that we accomplish, both to inspire future generations as well as to prove our claims over lands we should rightfully hold.
 Learning	
Yes Can press several Claims in a single war
 -10% Casus Belli Prestige Cost
 Zealot vassals are more common
Coinage icon
Coinage
Unregulated currencies are difficult to control and lack stability. Minted coins, measured to specific weights and stamped with a royal seal, give new confidence to commercial transactions.
 Stewardship	
 Unlocks the Coinage Rights Vassal Contract
 +10% Development Growth
Communal Government icon
Communal Government
Larger towns regularly face a series of increasingly complex problems. Delegating some authority to local councils will let them resolve these issues without needing to get the king involved.
 Stewardship	 Counties reach the maximum Existing Development penalty at 35 Development
Hereditary Rule icon
Hereditary Rule
Evenly dividing the realm amongst all eligible heirs fractures the unity of our people. Instead of tearing our realm asunder on every succession we can ensure we have a stable and prosperous heartland by establishing a system of hereditary rule.
 Diplomacy	 Can enact the Partition Law
Magistrates icon
Magistrates
A king cannot be everywhere at once. By appointing bailiffs to enforce the king's law throughout the realm, we can govern a larger area more effectively than we could otherwise.
 Stewardship	
 Glory Hound vassals are more common
 +1 Additional Building Slots
 +1 Tax Jurisdictions
Manorialism icon
Manorialism
With land ownership consolidated under our elite, many men and women find themselves unable to work. We will establish a manor system where free men can work our fields in exchange for rent, while those who cannot pay may enter our service as bound serfs instead.
 Stewardship	
Yes Unlocks all Early Medieval Era Economic Buildings
 Parochial vassals are more common
 -10% Building Construction Time
Royal Prerogative icon
Royal Prerogative
As our royalty has a greater burden placed upon them by their responsibility to govern the realm, so too shall they be bestowed with privileges reserved exclusively for them.
 Diplomacy	
Crown authority 2.png Can enact High Crown Authority Law
Crown authority 3.png Can enact Absolute Crown Authority Law
 Courtly vassals are more common
Regional innovations
Innovation	Skill	Region	Effect
Ghilman icon
Ghilman
Slave-soldiers taken as prisoners of war, ghilman are dedicated fighters who are both more loyal to us and cheaper to pay than common mercenaries.
 Martial	Arabia	 -15.00% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
Spiritual Expansionism icon
Spiritual Expansionism
Distracted by infighting, we have tolerated the presence of infidels in Hispania for too long. The time has come for us to rally our forces to drive them from this land once and for all!
 Martial	Iberia	
 -10% Casus Belli Piety Cost
 Zealot vassals are more common
Icon piety christian 01.png +10% Monthly Piety
Stammesherzogtum icon
Stammesherzogtum
Despite coming from different tribes, we recognize the importance of unity and cooperation. Independence is overvalued when stability is what leads to safety and prosperity.
 Diplomacy	Western Germany	
 -25 Vassal Independence Faction Acceptance if same heritage
Vassal stance courtly.png +5 Courtly Vassal Opinion
Mural Sextant
DLC Legacy of Persia.png	Available only with the Legacy of Persia DLC enabled.
Mural Sextant is a special innovation that can only be obtained from a Court Scholar research project, with a 1% chance each time. It gives the following bonuses:

 +0.2 Monthly Development Growth in Realm Capital
 +5% Monthly Learning Lifestyle Experience
Silk Road innovations
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Bulkheads icon
Bulkheads
The surest way to prevent a ship from sinking is to not breach its hull in the first place. But if that were to happen, the ship might still be saved if the hull was separated into compartments with watertight walls between them. Even if the ship was damaged, a bulkhead could prevent water from sinking the ship entirely, saving men, supplies, and the ship itself in the process.
 Stewardship	
 -45 Sea Danger
 -45 Coastal Sea Danger
Compass icon
Compass
With a piece of simple lodestone, it becomes possible to always know what direction a person is traveling in. With time and further development, it may eventually become possible to navigate without ever having to stop and ask someone for directions.
 Learning	
 +5 Travel Speed
 +5 Travel Safety
 +5% Army Movement Speed
 -50% Adventure Inspiration Cost
Double-Entry Bookkeeping icon
Double-Entry Bookkeeping
Records must keep up with the growing complexity of finances and the economy. Recording all payments in and all payments out as separate records helps maintain reliable balance sheets and ensure that entries aren't accidentally — or "accidentally" — overlooked when reviewing accounts.
 Stewardship	
 +5% Domain Taxes
 +10% Gold from the Collect Taxes councilor task
Fire Medicine icon
Fire Medicine
Plumbing the mysteries of life can sometimes uncover things that create only death. Fire medicine, a potent combination of sulfur, saltpeter, and some burnable material, creates a deadly flame that burns fiercely, almost explosively.
 Learning	
Building powder magazine.png Unlocks Gunpowder Manufacturer buildings
Unit fire lance.png Can recruit Fire Lancers Men-at-Arms
Fire dragon engineer court position.png Unlocks the Fire Dragon Engineer court position if Celestial
Grenades icon
Grenades
Despite all the advancements in warfare, one ancient tool remains invaluable: the arm. Small vessels filled with a flammable or explosive substance can be easily made and thrown by anyone with a decent pitching technique. Grenades distributed to soldiers before a battle can give them a secondary way to attack and shock the enemy.
 Learning	
 +5 Defender Holding Advantage
 +6 Skirmishers and Handgunners Damage
 +2 Skirmishers and Handgunners Toughness
 +5 Skirmishers and Handgunners Screen
High Medieval innovations
Military innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Advanced Bowmaking icon
Advanced Bowmaking
While archers have traditionally made and maintained their own bows, craftsmen have begun making new types of bows which are stronger and more complex than before. By embracing these new designs we can turn these master bowyers into an invaluable military asset.
 Learning	
Building workshops.png Unlocks Shooting Ranges
Unit crossbowmen.png Can recruit Crossbowmen Men-at-Arms
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png Knights of this culture become eligible for Crossbow Captain accolades
Castle Baileys icon
Castle Baileys
While the keep serves as the heart of a castle, it is far from the only important building. Constructing buildings like the stables and armory in a protected bailey will ensure we can properly garrison and equip our levies no matter the circumstances.
 Martial	
Yes Unlocks all High Medieval Era Military Buildings
 +15% Levy Reinforcement Rate
Hoardings icon
Hoardings
Placed on the top of our battlements, these wooden constructions extend out above the base of our castle walls. They allow our defenders to fire arrows, drop stones, or pour boiling oil on attackers while remaining completely protected from enemy archers.
 Stewardship	Yes Unlocks all High Medieval Era Fortification Buildings
Knighthood icon
Knighthood
By bestowing knighthoods upon our best fighters and paying them with land holdings instead of mere coin, we can give them the honor they deserve as well as secure their loyalty to us.
 Martial	
 Martial education provides Prowess education traits
 Glory Hound vassals are more common
 +20% Knight Effectiveness
Vassal stance glory hound.png +5 Glory Hound Vassal Opinion
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png +1 Accolades Available
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png +10% Accolade Glory Gain
Men-at-Arms icon
Men-at-Arms
Those skilled in the horse and the lance will always be in demand, but are not always available. Keeping groups of men-at-arms on retainer will ensure that we do not lack experienced fighters when war inevitably breaks out.
 Martial	
 +4 Size of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Max number of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Size of Title Men-at-Arms Regiments
Trebuchet icon
Trebuchet
An engineering marvel, the counterweight trebuchet can hurl heavy projectiles at distances further than any siege engine that came before it.
 Learning	
Unit trebuchet.png Can recruit Trebuchets as Men-at-Arms if heritage is not Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Unit siege tower.png Can recruit Siege Towers as Men-at-Arms if heritage is Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Civic innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Banking icon
Banking
Particularly large or expensive trades often require an unwieldy amount of heavy coinage. Depositing that wealth in secure treasuries and transferring ownership without moving the physical coins will allow large quantities of goods to be traded more easily.
 Stewardship	 +10% Development Growth
Divine Right icon
Divine Right
It is time that we recognize that it is divine will that has placed our rulers on their thrones, and to oppose them is to oppose divinity itself.
 Diplomacy	
De jure cb.png Can use the Seize All De Jure Lands casus belli
Default cb.png Can press multiple Claims of another Character in a single war
 Unlocks the Palatinate Feudal Contract
 Zealot vassals are more common
Icon piety christian 01.png +10% Monthly Piety
 -10% Short Reign Duration
 -20% Title Creation Cost
Guilds icon
Guilds
As our lands expand it becomes increasingly inefficient to directly manage all trade going on within our domain. By granting guild charters to organizations of merchants and craftsmen we can give them more autonomy over their businesses while still ensuring we profit from their ventures.
 Stewardship	
Building caravanserai.png Unlocks Small Caravanserai
Yes Unlocks all High Medieval Era Economic Buildings
 +1 Additional Building Slots
Heraldry icon
Heraldry
Establishing hereditary designs to identify our noble families will cause their members to see themselves as part of a greater whole, encouraging them to improve their dynasty's reputation instead of merely being obsessed with personal status.
 Diplomacy	
 Can enact the High Partition Law
 Can enact the House Seniority Law
 Courtly vassals are more common
Land Grants icon
Land Grants
Land is the most valuable reward we can bestow upon our subjects, but there is only so much that we directly own. However, if we were to grant them permission to start farming that unworked land over there... who would object? Even if conflict does result, we will clearly be in the right when we defend our subjects!
 Stewardship	
Task fabricate claim.png +50% Fabricate Claim on County Councilor Task Speed
 -10% Casus Belli Prestige Cost
 Parochial vassals are more common
Scutage icon
Scutage
Military service has always been expected of our subjects, but there are some who are unable or unwilling to provide it. By offering a way for them to meet their obligations with coin instead of steel, we can ensure that we get our dues from everyone.
 Stewardship	
 Unlocks the Scutage Feudal Contract
 +5% Republican Vassal Tax Contribution
Urbanization icon
Urbanization
The great cities of Rome, Byzantium, and Delhi have long stood out as relics of a great, unmatchable legacy. As our infrastructure and population grow, we finally have the means to develop new settlements which rival these ancient urban centers.
 Stewardship	 Counties reach the maximum Existing Development penalty at 55 Development
Windmills icon
Windmills
The invention of the vertical windmill allows us to harness the power of the wind much more efficiently than before, vastly reducing the labor necessary to grind grains and process raw materials.
 Stewardship	
Building windmills.png Unlocks Simple Windmills
Building watermills.png Unlocks Undershot Waterwheels
 +1 Additional Building Slots
Regional innovations
Innovation	Skill	Region	Effect
Hobbies icon
Hobbies
Riders on our Celtic hobby horses are both fast and agile — perfect for scouting and raiding in rough terrain where enemy knights are loathe to go.
 Martial	British Isles	Unit light cavalry.png Can recruit Hobelars Men-At-Arms
Muladi icon
Muladi
Wars, raids, and persecution all over the world have driven many people from their homes. By welcoming these displaced souls to our lands regardless of their background we can develop a rich and prosperous society.
 Diplomacy	Northern Africa	
 +10 Different Culture Opinion
 +10% Development Growth
Ostsiedlung icon
Ostsiedlung
The lands to our east are sparsely inhabited, but rich in natural resources. Establishing an initiative to expand and establish homesteads there will lead to the growth and prosperity of our people.
 Stewardship	Eastern Germany	
Task promote culture.png +15% Promote Culture Councilor Task Speed
 +15% Monthly Development Growth
Peerage icon
Peerage
By rightfully recognizing the most illustrious amongst the noble vassals of our realm we will foster a sentiment of greater loyalty towards the crown.
 Diplomacy	Francia	
 -10 Fellow Vassal Opinion
 +10% Vassal Tax Contribution
Vassal stance courtly.png +5 Courtly Vassal Opinion
 Must be unlocked through the Inspire Opus Francigenum decision
Seigneurialism icon
Seigneurialism
By delegating more responsibilities to local nobles, we can both make them happy as well as freeing up more of our attention to focus on our own domain.
 Stewardship	Francia	 +5% Domain Taxes
Fritzware
DLC Legacy of Persia.png	Available only with the Legacy of Persia DLC enabled.
Fritzware is a special innovation that can only be obtained from a Court Scholar research project, with a 1% chance each time. It gives the following bonuses:

 +5% Domain Taxes
 +20% Send Gift Opinion Gain
Cultural innovations
Innovation	Skill	Cultures	Effect
Desert Tactics icon
Desert Tactics
The Levant is an unfamiliar place with poor terrain for cavalry charges. We should adapt to these lands and field cavalry which is better suited to fight in our new home.
 Martial	Outremer	Unit light cavalry.png Can recruit Chasseurs Men-At-Arms
Pike Columns icon
Pike Columns
Pikemen have always been strong defenders, but they have historically lacked in mobility and offense. Devising new formations to address this deficiency will improve our chances of victory in battle.
 Martial	Republican Legacy tradition	Unit pikemen.png Can recruit Picchieri Men-At-Arms
Sanitation icon
Sanitation
Cleanliness is paramount, and investment in the civic engineering required to provide all with the ability to maintain appropriate levels of hygiene is extremely important to our people.
 Stewardship	
Arabic
Aramaic
Byzantine
 +10 Plague Resistance
Sarawit icon
Sarawit
The highlands where our ancestors settled requires a particular approach to agriculture. The building of terraced fields taught us to develop new military tactics, which are employed by our Serawit soldiers.
 Martial	Amharic Highlanders tradition	Unit heavy infantry.png Can recruit Sarawit Men-At-Arms
Late Medieval innovations
Military innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Gunpowder icon
Gunpowder
The development of gunpowder-based weaponry has allowed us to surpass the limitations of levers and pulleys. Our new siege weapons can tear down enemy walls with a force and efficiency that our ancestors could scarcely dream of.
 Learning	
Building powder magazine.png Unlocks Gunpowder Manufacturer buildings
 Can recruit Handgunners Men-at-Arms
Unit bombard.png Can recruit Bombards Men-at-Arms if heritage is not Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Unit cannon.png Can recruit Fire Dragon Engines Men-at-Arms if heritage is Chinese, Korean or Japonic
Machicolations icon
Machicolations
A notable improvement on our earlier hoardings, stone machicolations serve the same purpose while being significantly more durable and offering more protection for our defenders.
 Stewardship	Yes Unlocks all Late Medieval Era Fortification Buildings
Plate Armor icon
Plate Armor
The ultimate form of personal protection, a well-crafted suit of plate armor has articulated joints which give it a superior range of motion to earlier armors, while being all but impenetrable to enemy weapons.
 Martial	
 +10 Heavy Infantry Toughness
 +20 Heavy Cavalry Toughness
Royal Armory icon
Royal Armory
As the size of our armies increases, we must guarantee that each and every soldier will be properly armed and armored. The establishment of a royal armory to produce and house all of our armies' equipment will go a long way towards meeting this need.
 Martial	
Yes Unlocks all Late Medieval Era Military Buildings
 +15% Levy Reinforcement Rate
Sappers icon
Sappers
It does not matter how strong a our enemy's walls are if the earth beneath them can be dug through. Employing sappers to undermine enemy fortifications is an effective way to breach even the toughest defenses.
 Martial	 -10% Siege Phase Time
Standing Armies icon
Standing Armies
Military levies provide us with large numbers of soldiers, yet no matter how well we try to train and equip them they will always be inferior to professional soldiers. Establishing a large standing army will ensure the interests of our realm are enforced by the best fighters around.
 Martial	
 +5 Size of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Max number of Men-at-Arms Regiments
 +1 Size of Title Men-at-Arms Regiments
Civic innovations
Innovation	Skill	Effect
Court Officials icon
Court Officials
Our realm has expanded to the point where even minor nobles cannot administer everything effectively. Appointing court officials and bureaucrats to handle the more mundane court tasks will ensure that the wheels of government continue turning smoothly.
 Stewardship	
 Courtly vassals are more common
 +1 Domain Limit
 +1 Tax Jurisdictions
Cranes icon
Cranes
A forgotten marvel of engineering, the Romans used tread-wheel cranes to great effect when building their empire, and so too shall we.
 Stewardship	
Yes Unlocks all Late Medieval Era Economic Buildings
 -15% Building Construction Time
Exotic Regalia icon
Exotic Regalia
Anyone may claim a title, but in order to be a true monarch they must inspire awe and majesty in their subjects. Our new ermine cloaks are a form of regal dress which is sure to accomplish just that.
 Stewardship	 +20 Vassal Limit
Noblesse Oblige icon
Noblesse Oblige
Nobility is more than just privileges and rights; it also comes with a duty to the realm, an obligation to act in ways that are proper and just. Clearly establishing what is expected from our elite will give us an ideal to aspire to and bring us together as we work to achieve it.
 Diplomacy	
 +5 Fellow Vassal Opinion
Vassal stance courtly.png +5 Courtly Vassal Opinion
Vassal stance parochial.png +5 Parochial Vassal Opinion
DLC Tours and Tournaments.png +10% Accolade Glory Gain
Primogeniture icon
Primogeniture
One kingdom, one heir. While the younger children of our monarch may feel forsaken by being denied an inheritance, this is the best way to ensure we keep a stable realm which does not get torn apart by succession crises.
 Diplomacy	
 Can enact the Primogeniture Law
 Can enact the Ultimogeniture Law
 Zealot vassals are more common
Promissory Notes icon
Promissory Notes
An evolution of earlier banking systems, paper promissory notes allow our citizens to quickly and safely trade goods and services across large distances without being weighed down by heavy specie.
 Stewardship	 +10% Development Growth
Renaissance Thought icon
Renaissance Thought
Developments in science, philosophy, and logic have turned our cities into wondrous centers of education and innovation. The massive technological and cultural leaps we are now making has put hitherto undreamed potential within our grasp.
 Stewardship	
 Counties reach the maximum Existing Development penalty at 90 Development
 Parochial vassals are more common
Rightful Ownership icon
Rightful Ownership
It is our divine right to possess our de jure lands, and it is time the world recognizes this fact. No longer will we be held back by obsolete protocols and decorum.
 Diplomacy	
 -10% Casus Belli Prestige Cost
 Glory Hound vassals are more common
 -20% Title Creation Cost
Regional innovations
Innovation	Skill	Region	Effect
Condottieri icon
Condottieri
Being both wealthy and centrally located, Italy has become a major center for mercenary companies to travel to when not on active campaign. Since they are already here, we should be able to negotiate a better rates for them than they would normally charge.
 Intrigue	Italia	
 -25% Same Culture Mercenary Hire Cost
 +100% Number of Mercenary Companies
Deccan Unity icon
Deccan Unity
The influx of new beliefs and religions into our society has made it clear that our past focus on regionalism has been a mistake. We should band together with others of our faith and ensure a strong and enduring state that can stand up to external pressures.
 Diplomacy	Deccan India	 +5 Same Faith Opinion
Wierdijks icon
Wierdijks
Building strong and reliable dikes is an essential task if we wish to live and prosper within the low countries. New techniques of reinforcing earthen dikes with seaweed mats will increase their strength and durability.
 Stewardship	Netherlands	
 +1% Levy Size
 +10% Development Growth
 -10% City Buildings Construction Time
 -10% City Holdings Construction Time
Cultural innovations
The Legionnaires innovation is also unlocked for all cultures whose culture head owns the Roman Empire title.

Innovation	Skill	Cultures	Effect	DLC
Adaptive Militia icon
Adaptive Militia
Weapons like the goedendag are cheap and easy to produce, yet surprisingly effective against cavalry charges. Their existence allows us to adapt our militias to have much better odds when fighting armored knights.
 Martial	Polders tradition	Unit skirmishers.png Can recruit Goedendag Militia Men-At-Arms	
Legionnaires icon
Legionnaires
Just as we have restored the Roman empire, so too shall restore the structure of the old Roman legion and its feared elite troops!
 Martial	Roman	Unit heavy infantry.png Can recruit Palatini Men-At-Arms	
Rectilinear Schiltron icon
Rectilinear Schiltron
The traditional pike circle is a powerful defensive formation, but it is limited in offense and mobility. While requiring great discipline to employ, our rectilinear schiltron is a superior formation which is capable of both powerful offensive and defensive tactics.
 Martial	Strong Kinship tradition	Unit pikemen.png Can recruit Schiltron Men-At-Arms	
Valets icon
Valets
Establishing a valet system of dedicated servants for our noble horsemen will enable us to field knights who are both better armed and armored.
 Martial	Chanson de Geste tradition	Unit heavy cavalry.png Can recruit Gendarmes Men-At-Arms	
Zweihanders icon
Zweihanders
These massive two-handed swords are as adept at cutting down charging knights as they are at breaking enemy pike formations, making them a formidable addition to our own pike regiments.
 Martial	Central Germanic heritage	Unit pikemen.png Can recruit Landsknechts Men-At-Arms	
Rocket Carts icon
Rocket Carts
Using explosive formulas cruder than anything needed by expensive bombards, massive volleys of fire arrows can be fired from a single device. Since these fire arrows still only have the impact of... an arrow, they are far better-suited for shooting from walls than at them.
 Learning	
Buyeo heritage
Chinese heritage
Samhanic heritage
Unit hwacha.png Can recruit Rocket Carts Men-At-Arms
 +5 Holding Defender Advantage
DLC All Under Heaven.png All Under Heaven
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules


Category: 1.19
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
