
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Jargon
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article is timeless and should be accurate for any version of the game.

This page is the truncated form of Darkgamma's Acronym and Neologism Thread, found here on ParadoxPlaza. The page excludes the non-CK3 acronyms and neologisms.

The Acronyms
These are the acronyms (initialisms) related to CK3 that you'll find on the Paradoxplaza forums:

"CK3" or "CKIII" – Crusader Kings III, the game you are on the wiki for.
"CK2" or "CKII" – Crusader Kings II, the immediate predecessor to CKIII.
"PDS" or "PDX" – Paradox Development Studio, the developers of CKIII.
"PI" – Paradox Interactive, the publisher of CKIII.
"GG" – Gamersgate, one of the retailers of CKIII.
"WAD" – Works/working as designed; this acronym means that the thing in question is functioning as intended, typically used in the context of a mistaken bug.
"WIP" – Work in progress, this acronym means that the thing in question is still in development and not yet finished
"OPM" or "OCM" – One-province/one-county minor; this acronym signifies a usually independent nation consisting of only one province or county.
"ODM"– One-duchy minor; larger version of the OPM consisting of provinces only in one duchy.
"HRE" – Holy Roman Empire
"BE", "BZE" or "BYZ"– Byzantine Empire
"ERE" – Eastern Roman Empire, as alternative name for the Byzantine Empire.
"WC" – World conquest; direct conquest of every landed title
"AAR" – After-action report; a kind of a story told about a game in progress but with the action already complete, often narrated as if the player was the actual character.
"LP" – Let's Play; an alternative to the AAR, a video narrative of a game in progress with the action ongoing rather than already complete.
"CB" – 'Casus belli' = a justification for war, which is required in the game to declare any sort of war.
"OP" – Overpowered; used to reference a certain mechanic or tactic that's considered too powerful
"DD" – Development diary, a post about the development of a certain part of the game or DLC yet to be released at the time of writing, or, more recently, a mod in the same situation.
"DoW" – Declaration of war; extended into the verb "to DOW", meaning "to declare war".
"CTD" – A "crash to desktop" bug
"OOS" – An "out of sync" bug, where two computers in multiplayer disagree about game state
"HoF" – Head of Faith - The leader of a faith if Temporal or Spiritual Head of Faith Doctrine is present
"MaA" – Men-at-Arms - Elite fighting troops who need upkeep but have specialized roles unlike levies
"LAAMP" – Landless adventurer camp - A noble character who travels the world with followers and a camp
"DLC" – Downloadable content
DLC Acronyms
"NL" – Northern Lords
"RC" – Royal Court
"TnT" – Tours and Tournaments
"FoI" – Fate of Iberia
"LoP" – Legacy of Persia
"LoD" – Legends of the Dead
"FnF" – Friends and Foes
"WnW" – Wards and Wardens
"RtP" – Roads to Power
"WN" – Wandering Nobles
"MM" – Medieval Monuments
"KoS" – Khans of the Steppe
"AUH" – All Under Heaven
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: TimelessGuides
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
