
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Laws
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

Nav top.png
Crusader Kings III
Laws
Other laws
Authority laws
Succession laws
Laws are royal decrees that have a vital effect on the development of the realm. Decreasing the level of a law is free and can be done at any point but increasing the level of a law costs  Prestige.


Contents
1	Borders Wars Policy
2	Administrative laws
3	Celestial laws
3.1	Hegemony of China laws
4	Imperial Policy
5	Coronation
6	References
Borders Wars Policy
The Border Wars Policy law dictates if the liege will join its vassals' defensive wars against foreign rulers. They law is set automatically and cannot be changed.

If the title rank is  Hegemony, realm size is 160 or higher, the country is in a civil war, or House Unity is House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic, the law will be set to Conditional Join. The liege will not automatically join its vassals' defensive wars but if the war lasts 3 years they can use the Protect Vassal interaction to do so. Certain factions will also gain Discontent twice faster.
If the title rank is not  Hegemony, realm size is is less than 160, the country is not in a civil war and House Unity is not House unity antagonistic.png Antagonistic, the law will be set to Guaranteed Protection. The liege will automatically join its vassals' defensive wars.
Administrative laws
Roads to Power	Available only with the Roads to Power DLC enabled.
Administrative governments have access to the following laws. Changing them costs 200  Prestige, increased by 1 per Realm Size and reduced by 1 per  Learning.

Provincial War Declaration law dictates which governors can wage external wars and requires the Imperial Bureaucracy law to be at the same level or higher.

At level 1 governors can declare external wars
At level 2 only Icon game concept frontier administration.png Frontier and Icon game concept naval administration.png Naval governors can declare external wars
At level 3 only Icon game concept frontier administration.png Frontier and Icon game concept naval administration.png Naval governors can declare external wars and require permission from the emperor
At level 4 governors cannot declare external wars
Provincial Border Policy law dictates which governors can use the Boundary Dispute and Subsume Governorship political schemes and requires the Imperial Bureaucracy law to be one level or more above.

At level 1 governors can use the schemes
At level 2 governors can use the schemes if they belong to a Powerful Family or Dominant Family and reduces the  Opinion of administrative vassals by -5
At level 3 governors cannot use the schemes and reduces the  Opinion of administrative vassals by -10
Celestial laws
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Independent rulers with  Celestial government have access to the following laws. Changing them costs 200  Prestige, increased by 1 per Realm Size and reduced by 1 per  Learning.

Retirement Age law dictates the retirement age of governors. Can be set to 50, 60, 70, 80 or 90. Governors who are above retirement age have their candidate score reduced and unlock the Retire from Heading the House decision and their liege can use the the Retire Governor interaction on them.

Army Command Structure law decides how are men-at-arms owned by military governors.

Law	Men-at-arms for military governors	Title men-at-arms	Cost to call upon provincial armies	Celestial vassal effects	Requirements
Autonomous Command
All Governors have personal military authority	+2		Regular	 -5% Tax Base Contribution	
Regional Command
Military matters are handled by regional armies	-2	+1	-25%	 -5 Opinion	Can afford the law cost
Imperial Command
Military command is centralized and regulated	No		-50%	 -10 Opinion	Can afford the law cost
Grand Expansionist Command
Military command is highly prioritized and centralized	No	+2	-75%	 -15 Opinion	Dynastic cycle phase expansion.png Expansion dynastic cycle phase
Hegemony of China laws
The Hegemony of China unlocks two additional laws as long as its government remains  Celestial.

General Secretariat Control law dictates which councilor will be the Grand Secretariat diarch. Can be set to Grand Chancellor, Grand Marshal or Imperial Censor. Changing the law does not have any cost but can only be done while the Dynastic Cycle situation is in the Dynastic cycle phase advancement.png Advancement phase or the Dynastic cycle group advance.png Advancement Movement is the favored movement. AI hegemons will always keep the law to Grand Chancellor unless a human player is one of the other possible councilors.

Candidate Score Focus law dictates whether the level of fame and level of splendor affect the candidate scores and only affects characters who have the same government. Changing the law costs 1000  Influence and scaled  Treasury. The law initially starts set to Merit and changing it to Family requires the Dynastic cycle group anti.png Conservative Movement to be the Favored Movement and have 5 Ministries and 3 Powerful Family house heads.

Imperial Policy
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Independent emperors with  Ritsuryō or  Sōryō government have access to the Imperial Policy law, which affects both themselves and their vassals. Changing the law 500  Prestige. Vassals can change the law by forming an Imperial Policy faction and getting the liege to accept its ultimatum or win the civil war.

Law	Effects	Vassal Opinion	Description
Disarmament	
 +15% Development Growth
 +25% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +50% Internal Casus Belli Cost
Holding castle.png Can construct and upgrade castle holdings
-15 Sōryō government	Weaponry must be seized for peace to be maintained
Enforced Isolation	
 Reduced plague spread chance
 +15 Plague Resistance
 +25% Personal Physician Aptitude for treatments
 -15% Development Growth
 -15% Diplomatic Range
Outsiders must be kept from the realm to ensure stability
Imperial Pacification	
 -15% Men-at-Arms Recruitment Cost
 -15% Mercenary Hire Cost
 -25% Armory and Stable Domicile Building Cost
 +20 Danger
Default cb.png Unlocks the Imperial County Pacification casus belli
Yes Allows declaring external wars
-35 Ritsuryō government	The borders of the realm must be safeguarded
Manor Reform	
 -15% Building Construction Time
 -15% Building Construction Cost
 +25% Domicile Building Construction Time
 +25% Domicile Building Construction Cost
 -25% Domicile Influence
-15 Ritsuryō government	Land must be redistributed to prevent corruption
Banditry Crackdown	
 +0.2 Monthly Control
 +5% Control Growth
 -10% City Building Construction Cost
 -10 Danger
 -15% Development Growth
+15 Minor Landholder vassal stance	Order must be restored to the countryside
Defense Mobilization	
Can only be passed during a Defensive war or when not owning every country de jure part of Empire of Japan
 +1 Fort Level
 +15% Hostile Raid Time
 -25% Armory and Stable Domicile Building Cost
 -15% Men-at-Arms Maintenance
 +5 Advantage in counties with the same cultural heritage
Default cb.png Unlocks the Imperial Reconquest of Japan casus belli
The realm must unite against outside threats
Coronation
DLC Coronations.png	Available only with the Coronations DLC enabled.
As long as the Coronation Laws game rule has not been set to No Coronation Laws, every  King and above will have the Coronation law. Unlike other laws, it cannot be changed manually and is instead increased automatically upon completing a Activity coronation.png Coronation activity. Every new ruler will start with the law set to the lowest level and depending on game rules increasing the title rank to  Empire or  Hegemony may decrease it as well.

In realms with a Ceremonial Monarchy neither monarch will have the Coronation law unless they are the same character. Rulers with  Ritsuryō or  Sōryō government will only have the the Coronation law if they are the top liege.

Uncrowned.png Uncrowned	Crowned king.png Crowned Sovereign	Crowned emperor.png Anointed Sovereign
Effects	
 -2.5 Monthly Legitimacy
 -25% Legitimacy Gain
 -10 Vassal Opinion
No Character and spouse cannot use Crown/Regalia artifacts
 +5 Courtly Vassal Opinion
 +5 Minor Landholder Vassal Opinion
 Character and spouse can use Crown/Regalia artifacts
 +10 Courtly Vassal Opinion
 +10 Minor Landholder Vassal Opinion
 +10 Zealot Vassal Opinion
 Character and spouse can use Crown/Regalia artifacts
Source	New ruler	Coronation type normal icon.png Coronation activity variant	Coronation type anointment icon.png Anointment activity variant
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: Potentially outdated1.18Realm
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
