
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Power sharing
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.


Power sharing where the diarch has full powers
Power sharing occurs when a significant amount of power is delegated to a second character, called the diarch, who helps their liege run their realm but may also use the power for their own gain. Being in a diarchy prevents the titles owner from changing their succession law. A ruler cannot imprison, revoke titles, retract vassals or ask for the conversion of their diarch. They also cannot request the diarch's excommunication. If the diarch is also a vassal then higher de jure titles that include the diarch's primary title can only be given to the diarch.

Regencies cannot happen in realms where there is already a diarch but being valid for a regency will prevent the existing diarchy from being ended.


Contents
1	Mandates
2	Loyalty
3	Scales of Power ​
4	Regency
5	Entrenched Regency and Co-Monarchy
6	Vizierate
7	Duumvirate
7.1	Nominal Duumvirate
8	Grand Secretariat
Mandates
During the power sharing, the diarch will be tasked with a mandate to pursue while the liege is unavailable. There are three possible mandates and their effects:

Mandate	Possible benefits	Aptitude
Fill Coffers icon
Fill Coffers
The Diarch is instructed to increase revenues for their Liege, at any cost.
 Extra gold
 Free domain development
 Feudal contracts adjusted in the liege's favor
+1 per  Stewardship
+0.5 per  Intrigue
+0.5 per  Learning
Swell Armies icon
Swell Armies
Current or future campaigns call for fresh bodies to fight, and the Liege has decreed that their Diarch shall find them
 Positive men-at-arms modifiers
 Positive levy modifiers
 Skilled knight courtiers
+1 per  Martial
+0.5 per  Prowess
+0.5 per  Diplomacy
Promote Authority icon
Promote Authority
The Liege calls on their Diarch to help build and focus the power of the throne.
Yes Characters leave factions
 Increased crown authority
 Increased council opinion
+1 per  Diplomacy
+0.5 per  Martial
+0.5 per  Learning
The diarch will receive events related to these mandates and be given the option to grant the benefit to their liege, split rewards, pocket it for themselves, or just ignore their duties entirely. Their aptitude will influence how good they are at doing their job.

Loyalty
Each diarch has a loyalty rating, which determines how likely they are to abuse their powers.

Loyalty selfless.png Selfless diarchs will not use borrowed powers and always give the mandate benefits to the liege. If the liege tries to end the power sharing they will always agree.
Loyalty situational.png Situational diarchs will sometimes use borrowed powers and always split the mandate benefits with the liege or ignore their duties. If the liege tries to end the power sharing but the Scales of Power are not at level 1 it will require paying the diarch with something.
Loyalty self-interested.png Self-Interested diarchs will try to use borrowed powers and always pocket the mandate benefits themselves. If the liege tries to end the power sharing but the Scales of Power favor them they will always refuse.
Loyalty is increased by positive  Opinion,  Dread, and the diarch's Compassion and Honor. It will always be Loyalty selfless.png Selfless if the ruler has a Loyalty or Loyalty to Predecessor  strong hook on the diarch or the diarch has extremely high Honor.

Scales of Power ​
The Scales of Power go from 0 to 100 and represents the balance of the power shared between liege and diarch. The longer the power sharing lasts the more it increases towards the diarch, giving them more power in the realm. Barring other factors, Scales of Power tend to drift to 50. Both liege and diarch may try to swing the Scales of Power in their favor every 2 years via the following options:

Option	Base cost (affected by ruler  Legitimacy)
 Count	 Duke	 King and above
Leverage Prestige	 75	 150	 350
Leverage Piety	 50	 100	 250
Leverage Gold	 100	 300	 750
Ask for intercession from your Head of Faith	 50
 100	 100
 300	 250
 750
Use a Hook			
Roads to PowerDLC All Under Heaven.png Leverage Influence	 30	 60	 100
DLC All Under Heaven.png Leverage Personal Movement Power	 100	 100	 100
Leverage Piety and Ask for intercession from the Head of Faith is only available if both characters have the same head of faith. The latter also requires at least 60  Opinion with the head of faith while the opponent does not have 40  Opinion or a  Strong Hook on them.

If the Scales of Power favor the diarch then the liege will have to pay  Prestige for mundane actions. Mundane actions are revoking a title, retracting a vassal, imprisoning a character, and executing characters (unless the liege's faith has the Human Sacrifice or Gruesome Festivals tenet).

Regency
Regency occurs for a ruler who is imprisoned by someone who is not their vassal or away on an activity taking place outside their realm. If the Scales of Power are at level 1 or the diarch has Selfless loyalty the Regency will end automatically when the ruler returns. Otherwise it requires using  Prestige,  Piety,  Gold or offering a  Weak Hook to the diarch. During Regency the liege has +10%  Stress Loss and the regent has +15%  Stress Gain.

When a regency happens the diarch is picked in the following order. The regent can be designated manually by the liege every 10 years but it will reduce  Opinion with any character higher in the succession hierarchy as well as all  Courtly vassals.

Primary heir
Spouse or parent
Child or sibling
Councilor family member
Regency has 4 levels. Each level grants the diarch unique interactions called borrowed powers. Borrowed powers can be vetoed by the liege by spending  Prestige, and using Borrowed powers may cause Strife - an  Opinion penalty with all of the liege's vassals. Initially Scales of Power has the following levels:

Level	Scales	Borrowed power	Borrowed power effects
1	0-33	Siphon Treasury	 Stewardship challenge targeting the liege. The difficulty scales with the amount chosen.
On success gain  Gold and the Embezzler secret. One of the liege's counties will lose  Holding Taxes,  Control or  Development scaling with the amount chosen and the diarch's  Stewardship.
On failure gain 15-50 Strife and lose 30-75  Opinion with the liege depending on the amount chosen. Failure is also a crime.
2	34-66	Regent Imprison	Targets the liege's vassals and courtiers. The liege can veto the interaction at the cost of 150  Prestige.
On success imprison the targeted character and gain 10  Dread and 15 Strife.
On failure gain Tyranny if the target is a courtier and starts a war with the Remove Regent casus belli if the target is a vassal.
Liege can pay 150  Prestige to cancel the borrowed power.
3	67-99	Legal Meddling	Targets the liege's vassals. Can choose to pay 150  Prestige (success), 80  Prestige (50% chance of success) or do a  Learning challenge.
On success gain an  Unpressed Claim on the vassal's primary title, 10 Strife and -20  Opinion with the vasal.
On failure gain  Stress and -10  Opinion with the vasal.
4	100	Modify Vassal Contract
Entrench Regency	Targets the liege. Lowers one obligation or adds a right to the vassal contract at the cost of 40  Opinion with the liege.
Power sharing becomes Entrenched Regency. This costs 150  Prestige.
Entrenched Regency and Co-Monarchy
Entrenched Regents and Co-Monarchs have similar powers at the steps on the scale. However, there are some key differences.

Co-Monarchy is started when a  Feudal,  Sōryō,  Tribal or  Wanua  King or  Emperor chooses to appoint a family member as co-monarch, in which case the diarch is also automatically appointed as designated heir. It can only be ended by imprisoning and executing the co-monarch.
Entrenched Regency is automatic for an underage or  Incapable ruler or one who takes the Enter Seclusion decision. A level 4 Regency can also be turned into an Entrenched Regency. If a ruler comes of age the new balance for the Scales of Power is at 0 and the ruler can attempt to end the Entrenched Regency.
Level	Scales	Effects	Liege mundane action cost	Can end Entrenched Regency
1	0-19	
Diarch can use the Siphon Treasury borrowed power on the liege
Diarch can use the Subsidize Liege Authority borrowed power on the liege
0	Yes Yes
2	20-39	
Diarch gets a free extra change to their Vassal Contract
Diarch can use the Shift Privileges borrowed power on the liege's vassals
0	Requires diarch acceptance
3	40-59	
Diarch can use the Legal Meddling borrowed power on the liege's vassals
Diarch can use the Diarch Revoke Title borrowed power on the liege's vassals if they have a claim on one of its titles and realm has enough Crown Authority
75+	Requires diarch acceptance
4	60-79	
Diarch can use the Diarch Imprison borrowed power on the liege's vassals and courtiers
Diarch can use the Diarch Retract Vassal borrowed power on the liege's vassals if realm has enough Crown Authority
150+	Requires diarch acceptance
5	80-94	
Diarch can use the Elevate Self to Co-Emperor borrowed power if Duumvirate conditions are met
250+	No No
6	95-100	
Diarch can use the Attempt to Overthrow Liege decision
Diarch can use the Invite Conspirators to Coup borrowed power on powerful vassals
350+	No No
Vizierate
Vizierate occurs when a clan ruler appoints a vizier, which costs 350  Prestige. The diarch gains access to the Siphon Treasury borrowed power while the liege gains access to the Mulct Vizier interaction with the diarch, gaining gold and swinging Scales of Power towards the diarch. If the diarch is also a  Tax Collector then it gains 50% of the current Scales of Power as Tax Collector Aptitude. If a vizierate is ended another one cannot be started for 5 years.

Unless at level 1, ending the power sharing will give a negative  Monthly Income modifier that depends on the current Scales of Power. Alternatively the power sharing can be ended without penalties by giving the diarch a landed title.

Under Vizierate the Scales of Power go up to level 7. As levels increase,  Tax Collectors gain an aptitude bonus depending on the diarch's own aptitude.

Level	Scales	Tax collector bonus	End power sharing penalty	Liege mundane action cost	Attempt to Overthrow Liege decision
1	0-19		0%	0	No
2	20-39	+10%	16%-24% unless granting a  County	0	No
3	40-59	+20%	32%-40% unless granting a  County	0	No
4	60-69	+40%	48% unless granting a  Duchy	75+	No
5	70-79	+40%	56% unless granting a  Duchy	150+	No
6	80-89	+60%	64% unless granting a  Duchy	250+	No
7	90+	+60%	72%-80% unless granting a  Duchy	350+	Yes
Duumvirate
Roads to Power	Available only with the Roads to Power DLC enabled.
Duumvirate is a form of power sharing only available to  Emperors whose culture has the Roman Ceremonies tradition, and only close family members of the ruler or house heads of powerful families can be appointed as diarchs. The liege gets a percentage  Influence bonus while the diarch gets a flat monthly bonus, which both increase every 5 years of power sharing, including those with a Nominal Duumvirate. Children of the diarch can also gain the  Born in the Purple trait if the other requirements are met.

Under a Duumvirate the diarch always becomes the Designated Heir and if they execute their liege or defeat them in war they take all the liege's titles. If a Designated Heir previously existed they will lose 50  Opinion.

The Duumvirate can only be ended if the diarch is imprisoned. In that case the liege will have to choose between banishing the diarch or giving them the  Eunuch,  Blind,  Disfigured,  Maimed or  One-Legged trait. If the diarch has claims on any of the liege's titles an option to renounce claims instead will be present. If the liege's faith has the Monasticism tenet they also have the option to give the  Devoted trait instead unless the diarch has the  Excommunicated trait.

Level	Scales	Effects	Administrative bonus	Liege mundane action cost
1	0-20	
Diarch can use the Siphon Treasury borrowed power on the liege
Diarch can use the Co-Emperor Imprison borrowed power on the liege's vassals
Diarch can use the Shift Privileges borrowed power on the liege's vassals
+50%	0
2	21-40	
Diarch can use the Co-Emperor Revoke Title borrowed power on the liege's vassals
Diarch can use the Co-Emperor Retract Vassal borrowed power on the liege's vassals
Diarch can use the Adjust Bureaucracy borrowed power on the liege
+75%	0
3	41-60	
Diarch can use the Demand Private Despotate borrowed power on the liege
Diarch and liege can use the Scapegoat interaction on each other if one has higher Diplomacy or Intrigue
+100%	75+
4	61-80	
Diarch can use the Request Imperial Expedition borrowed power on the liege
+150%	150+
5	81-100	
Diarch can use the Attempt to Overthrow Liege decision
Diarch can use the Invite Conspirators to Coup borrowed power on powerful vassals
+150%	250+
Nominal Duumvirate
Children can be given a Nominal Duumvirate instead. Upon becoming adult the power sharing will be turned into a regular Duumvirate, the diarch receives additional skill points depending on the Scales of Power swing and the Scales of Power swing is reduced by half. Both characters get the same  Influence bonus as from a regular Duumvirate. The liege can swing the Scales of Power both ways and swinging them towards the diarch is free and gives +20  Opinion with them.

Level	Scales	Adulthood skill points	Administrative bonus
1	0-20		
2	21-40	
+2 in the education skill
+1 in two other skills
+50%
3	41-60	
+3 in the education skill
+2 in two other skills
+75%
4	61-80	
+4 in the education skill
+3 in two other skills
+100%
5	81-100	
+5 in the education skill
+4 in two other skills
+150%
In 1066 the Byzantine Empire starts with a Duumvirate while in 1178 it starts with a Nominal Duumvirate.

Grand Secretariat
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Grand Secretariat is a form of power sharing used in Hegemony of China and cannot be ended. The diarch will be a councilor decided by the Grand Secretariat Control law and receives +1 Disciple Limit and +100 Movement Power. Grand Secretariats use a different set of mandates:

Mandate	Possible benefits	Aptitude
Placate Movements icon
Placate Movements
Secretary Director is set to appease the Movement Power.
Dynastic cycle group pro.png Characters join the Pro-Dynasty movement
 Characters leave factions
 Slander scheme is more effective against other movements
 Increased acceptance to join movement
+1 per  Diplomacy
+0.3 per  Stewardship
+0.3 per  Intrigue
+0.3 per  Learning
Cultivate Body icon
Cultivate Body
Son of Heaven calls on their Secretary Director to help cultivate Prowess in the Realm.
 Positive men-at-arms modifiers
 Positive levy modifiers
 Skilled knight courtiers
+1 per  Martial
+0.5 per  Prowess
+0.5 per  Diplomacy
Cultivate Body icon
Cultivate Body
Son of Heaven calls of their Secretary Director to help cultivate Merit in the Realm.
Activity imperial examination.png Capital Examination Merit rewards are increased
 Mentorship scheme is more effective
 Characters gain Merit
 Characters gain the Confucian Education trait or experience for it
+2 per Merit Rank
+1 per Disciple
+0.25 per  Confucian Education trait level
Under Grand Secretariat the Scales of Power go up to level 6.

Level	Scales	Borrowed power	Borrowed power effects	Liege mundane action cost
1	0-19	Shift Privileges	Targets the liege's vassals. Can choose to pay 150  Prestige (success), 80  Prestige (50% chance of success) or do a  Diplomacy challenge.
On success gain  Gold and 10 Strife and a random county in the vassal's domain gains a random county corruption modifier for 8 years.
On failure gain  Stress and -20  Opinion with the vasal.
0
2	20-39	Secretary Director Imprison	Targets the liege's vassals and courtiers. The liege can veto the interaction at the cost of 150  Prestige.
On success imprison the targeted character and gain 5  Dread and 15 Strife.
On failure gain Tyranny if the target is a courtier and starts a war with the Remove Regent casus belli if the target is a vassal.
Liege can pay 150  Prestige to cancel the borrowed power.
0
3	40-59	Modify Circuit Administration	Targets the liege. Free extra change to the Vassal Contract that the liege cannot refuse	75+
4	60-79	Change Mandate	Targets the liege, allows selecting the Mandate and gives -20  Opinion with the liege.	150+
5	80-89	Scapegoat Co-Ruler	Targets the liege and requires higher  Diplomacy or  Intrigue. Gain  Influence but also Strife and lose  Opinion with the liege.	250+
6	90+	Invite Conspirators to Coup	Targets the liege's vassals and courtiers and unlocks the Attempt to Overthrow Liege decision. Can pay  Gold or a Hook to increase acceptance.	350+
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19Realm
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
