
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Succession
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.10.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

Succession involves the inheritance of  titles,  gold,  men-at-arms and artifacts upon the death or abdication of a ruler.


Contents
1	Heirs
2	Eligibility
3	Realm succession
3.1	Single heir
3.1.1	Primogeniture
3.1.2	Ultimogeniture
3.1.3	House seniority
3.2	Multiple heirs
3.2.1	(Regular) partition
3.2.2	Confederate partition
3.2.3	High partition
4	Title succession
5	Title claim inheritance
6	Other forms of inheritance
7	Abdication
8	Notes
9	Tips
10	References
Heirs
If a character expects to inherit one or more titles from a ruler, they are that ruler's  heir. If this includes their primary title, they are that ruler's primary heir specifically. The player heir denotes the character who the player will continue playing as upon succession; this is always one's primary heir unless that character belongs to a different dynasty.

Eligibility
Certain laws and doctrines determine who is eligible for inheritance. In addition, some traits may disinherit their owner together with all their descendants. Ineligible characters do not inherit claims either.

The gender law determines whether only men, only women or both inherit. With male preference, women are ineligible as long as they have eligible brothers; vice versa for female preference.
Theocratic rulers cannot inherit.
The following traits disinherit
 Bastard and  Bastard Founder
 Child of Concubine if either monogamous or polygamous
 Disinherited if the predecessor belongs to the same dynasty
 Eunuch
 MonkNun (does not disinherit descendants, inherits claims nonetheless)
 Order Member (does not disinherit descendants, inherits claims nonetheless)
Realm succession
The  realm succession law applies to every title which does not have an individual title succession law assigned.

Several illustrated examples are given, which show the primary according to different laws

numbers denote the line of succession, with 0 being the current holder
characters marked with an x are ineligible
red squares denote men, blue circles denote women
black figures denote deceased characters
Single heir
Primogeniture

An illustrated example of male only primogeniture
All titles are inherited by the oldest child. If this child is dead, a living heir is sought among their descendants in the same manner. If the ruler has no living descendants, the oldest sibling is chosen.[1] If this sibling is dead, a living heir is sought among their descendants in the same manner. If lateral branches provide no candidate, the primary parent is chosen. If they're dead, a candidate is sought among their siblings, etc.

the father in a patrilineal marriage, the mother in a matrilineal marriage

Ultimogeniture

An illustrated example of male preference ultimogeniture
All titles are inherited by the youngest child. If this child is dead, a living heir is sought among their descendants in the same manner. If the ruler has no living descendants, the youngest sibling is chosen.[1] If this sibling is dead, a living heir is sought among their descendants in the same manner. If lateral branches provide no candidate, the primary parent is chosen. If they're dead, a candidate is sought among their siblings, etc.

House seniority

An illustrated example of equal house seniority
All titles are inherited by the oldest house member. With male preference, younger men take precedence over older women; vice versa for female preference.

Multiple heirs
(Regular) partition

An illustrated example of female preference partition
The oldest child is given the primary title along with its de facto capital and any higher title the capital belongs to de jure.
All  empires are distributed in order. The oldest child with the fewest empire titles takes priority. If a non-primary heir received titles, they are also given any lower title that belongs to them de jure. Importantly, they receive no more titles in the following steps.
All  kingdoms are distributed in order. The oldest child with the fewest empire plus kingdom titles takes priority. If a non-primary heir received titles, they are also given any lower title that belongs to them de jure. Importantly, they receive no more titles in the following steps.
All  duchies are distributed in order. The oldest child with the fewest empire plus kingdom plus duchy titles takes priority. If a non-primary heir received titles, they are also given any lower title that belongs to them de jure. Importantly, they receive no more titles in the following steps.
All  counties are distributed in order. The oldest child with the fewest county titles[2] takes priority.
All  baronies go to whomever holds their de jure counties.
Notes

If a deceased child had any descendants, their would-be primary heir will take their place during succession.
The primary heir will vassalise every other heir, unless their rank is equal to theirs.
If an heir held titles prior to succession and they were the predecessor's direct vassal, those titles are taken into account as well.
See primogeniture if the ruler has no descendants.
There may be exceptions to these rules if another heir already holds land within a title someone else would inherit.
If the capital lies within the de jure territory of a held title which is equal in rank to but not itself the primary, said title will not be inherited along with the capital.
Confederate partition
Like partition, except that new titles may automatically be created (at no cost) beforehand. The titles in question are those the ruler could have created prior to death or abdication, but only if their rank is equal to the primary title's rank. The minimum county threshold is checked taking into account any discount from the late ruler's legitimacy.

High partition
Like partition, except that the primary heir takes half the titles in each step first. If there's an odd number of them, the total is rounded up.

In all cases, if all else fails and there are no valid living heirs represented in the game for a ruler, the titles will be inherited by the ruler's liege. If the ruler was independent (and thus has no liege), one of the ruler's vassals is selected to inherit. If the ruler had no living vassals, one of the ruler's courtiers is selected to inherit.

Title succession
A title succession law can be assigned to individual titles; besides the gender laws, these are all a form of elective succession. Options are restricted to certain ranks, cultures andor titles andor government type (Feudal only). If the primary title has a title succession law, its de facto capital will not be inherited along with it it goes to whomever would be the primary heir according to realm succession alone.

Title claim inheritance
The gender law determines whether sons, daughters or both inherit claims on their parents' titles. Upon succession, eligible children are given  pressed claims on titles they did not inherit nor vassalise. If the parent held pressed claims themselves,  unpressed claims are inherited in their stead. Unpressed claims cannot be passed down, but will revert to the former status if pressed in a war. Note that a deceased child's place holder during partition will not receive the claims their parent would have inherited.

Malefemale only Only sonsdaughters inherit claims.
Malefemale preference Both daughters and sons inherit claims.
Equal Both daughters and sons inherit claims.
The faith's view on gender determines which children get  implicit claims during their parents' lifetime. Note that a deceased child's place holder during partition will receive implicit claims in their stead, but only if they're of the appropriate sex.

 Male dominated Only sons receive implicit claims.
 Female dominated Only daughters receive implicit claims.
 Equal Both daughters and sons receive implicit claims.
Other forms of inheritance
The primary heir inherits all  gold,  men-at-arms and artifacts upon succession.

Part of late ruler's Legitimacy

25% if heir was landed (that amount will be added to hishers current legitimacy)
if heir was unlanded, then a great percentage depending on birth order and gender (legitimacy loss is negligible for a first child of preferred gender)
Abdication
Abdication entails a ruler renouncing all Titles, triggering a Succession.

Abdication can be done by losing a tyranny war or through a level 3 stress mental break.

The abdicating ruler loses -500  Prestige, but gains  Pressed claims on all of their former titles.

Notes
If an unlanded character inherits a duchy+ title, they will automatically usurp a county in their new realm, preferably its de jure capital. If none of the title's de jure land was held, the title goes to the primary heir instead.
Newly landed characters receive a selection of  men-at-arms at no cost. The larger their income is, the more  men-at-arms they will receive.
With partition succession, the primary heir cannot be granted titles that other heirs expect to inherit.
A ruler with no descendants will pass their titles to their liege. If that ruler was independent, a vassal of theirs will inherit, or a courtier if no vassals exist.
Several cultures can get advanced succession laws early due to their Cultural Innovations.
Characters of Czech or Slovien culture can enact the House Seniority law at any Crown Authority due to their Table of Princes Cultural Innovation.
Characters of Aragonese, Basque, and Catalan culture can enact the High Partition Law due to their Visigothic Codes Cultural Innovation. Due to the same Innovation, they can also enact the Equal (Cognatic) Law at High Crown Authority.
The display order of titles in the character screen is decided as follows
The primary title always comes first.
Higher tier titles come before lower tier titles.
Titles of the same tier are ordered according to how long each title has been in possession, the oldest one coming first.
Tips
Feudal rulers who have only one title of the same rank as the primary title, but are at risk of the realm splitting due to Confederate Partition, can consider adding Feudal Elective succession to their primary title.
The dynasty head can disinherit dynasty members at the cost of Renown and Prestige.
The primary heir will always inherit each holding within the capital county.
With partition succession, all titles within the capital duchy pass to the primary heir if all other heirs expect a duchy+ of their own. Likewise, all titles within the capital kingdom go to the primary heir if all other heirs expect a kingdom+ of their own.
If an heir is granted their titles in advance, their fellow heirs won't inherit claims on them, which reduces infighting after succession. Note that children tend to love their parents, which generally makes them loyal vassals. If so, they will receive a significant opinion of predecessor opinion bonus towards the primary heir upon succession.
If a ruler's primary title is outside one's de jure realm, they can be granted independence. Each landed dynasty member, who is not subject to another, generates renown. As the dynasty head, one retains some control over these rulers, e.g. calling such dynastic rulers to war (at the cost of renown).
If one's faith has the monasticism tenet, characters above the age of 9 can be asked to take the vows this disqualifies them from inheritance. Even married characters can be asked, assuming they're the primary spouse.
References
 httpsforum.paradoxplaza.comforumthreadscrusader-kings-3-dev-diary-52-1-3-corvus-patch-notes.1462124
 httpsforum.paradoxplaza.comforumthreadspatch-1-1-is-out-now.1428537
Categories Potentially outdated1.10Realm
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
