
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Travel
Jump to navigationJump to search
This article has been verified for the current PC version (1.19) of the game.


Planning a pilgrimage travel
Travel is used for characters on the road who must leave their home for a time. The system is used by any activity that does not take place in the same barony as the character, as well as vassals who make the decision to petition or pay homage to their liege. Adventurers also travel is also used while undertaking contracts or moving their camp.

In most cases, a character will travel with an Entourage made up of characters relevant to the circumstances. Characters who have  Personal Physician or  Bodyguard court positions will always join and additional characters can be added via certain travel options. Schemes progress is paused if either character is traveling, unless both characters are part of the same Entourage. If a ruler's travel destination lies outside their realm, a regent will assume power until the ruler returns.

A random event will take place for every 20 baronies traveled.


Contents
1	Mechanics
2	Points of interest
2.1	Battles sites
3	Travel options
3.1	Ruler travel options
3.2	Adventurer travel options
4	References
Mechanics
Traveling has two important factors to keep track of:

 Speed determines how fast the caravan will move compared to armies. At 100% the caravan will move at the same speed as armies.
 Safety reduces the chance of  Danger events.
Once a destination is selected a travel route will be created going through the shortest number of baronies. Detours can be manually added in order to avoid dangerous baronies or visit specific points of interest. While traveling, various events may occur. Each barony has a chance of triggering a  Danger event, which is determined by the terrain of each barony, the level of constructed holdings, the Control level of its county, and the  Opinion of each county and its title holder. Some cultural traditions can reduce the danger from traveling through certain types of terrain. If a Barony is infected by a plague it will also have a Plague Danger, representing the chance of catching a plague if traveling through that barony.

Points of interest
When a travel is planned the map will display all points of interest, which are baronies that contain something noteworthy. Visiting a point of interest will give additional bonuses, which stacks if the barony meets multiple point of interest criteria. The following baronies are points of interest:

Capitals of a  Kingdom will give experience to the lifestyle matching its court type. If it does not have a royal court it will give Diplomacy lifestyle.png Diplomacy lifestyle experience.
Capitals of an  Empire will give triple experience to the lifestyle matching its court type. If it does not have a royal court it will give Diplomacy lifestyle.png Diplomacy lifestyle experience.
Capitals of a ruler with an Illustrious or Mythical legend will give Diplomacy lifestyle.png Diplomacy lifestyle experience.
Holy sites will give 100  Piety. If the character has the  Wise Man/Woman trait it will also gain experience for it.
Baghdad, Constantinople and Rome if they are outside the realm will give experience for the  Traveler trait and offer the option to delay the travel for 14 days for the chance to gain various bonuses.
Alexandria and Halicarnassos will give 150  Prestige.
Unique buildings such as mining sites, modified natural features, and so on grant experience for the appropriate lifestyle.
Capitals of rulers whose government use  Merit will give 60  Merit if the visiting ruler's government also uses it.
Battles sites
Battle sites are points of interest that will give Martial lifestyle.png Martial lifestyle experience and has a 20% chance to give a commander trait if the character does not have two or more. The following historical battle sites exist, provided the game is started after their historical year:

Point of Interest	Barony	Year	Commander trait
Battle of Muye	Wei	1046 BCE	 Aggressive Attacker
Battle of Guandu	Yangwu	200	 Flexible Leader
Battle of Red Cliffs	Hanyang	208	 Forder
Battle of Yiling	Yiling	221	
Battle of Fei River	Shouchun	383	 Defender
Battle of Canhe Slope	Yikunzhou	395	 Organizer
Battle of Yarmuk	Zurra	636	 Reckless
Battle of Baekgang	Jeonjiu	663	 Defender
Battle of Aror	Aror	711	 Flexible Leader
Battle of Tours	Châtellerault	732	 Unyielding Defender
Battle of Talas	Talas	751	 Desert Warrior
Battle of Xiangji Temple	Chang'an	757	
Battle of Subushi	Kurihara	789	 Rough Terrain Expert
Siege of Songping	Thăng Long	863	 Pillager
Battle of Lechfeld	Augsburg	955	 Open Terrain Expert
Battle of Gaoliang River	Ji	979	 Logistician
Battle of Svolder	Arkona	999	 Holy Warrior
Chola attack on Palembang	Palembang	1025	 Flexible Leader
Battle of Dandanaqan	Dandanaqan	1040	 Desert Warrior
Battle of Civitate	Larino	1053	 Open Terrain Expert
Battle of Hastings	Hastings	1066	 Aggressive Attacker
Battle of Stamford Bridge	York	1066	 Organizer
Battle of Manzikert	Malazgirt	1071	 Flexible Leader
Siege of Angkor	Angkor	1177	 Pillager
New battle sites will appear following battles that meet at least 3 of the following criteria:

One of the war leaders was a human player
One of the war leaders, their heir or their consort/concubine was killed
One of the war leaders, their heir or their consort/concubine was captured
Neither side has twice or more troops than the other
65% of one of the armies became Fatal Casualties
Enough troops became Fatal Casualties in battle depending on current year
3500 between years 867-1000
7000 between years 1001-1100
10500 between years 1101-1200
14000 between years 1201-1300
17500 between years 1301-1400
21000 after year 1401
Enough troops were present in battle depending on current year
10500 between years 867-1000
21000 between years 1001-1100
31500 between years 1101-1200
42000 between years 1201-1300
52500 between years 1301-1400
63000 after year 1401
Both war leaders were human players in multiplayer
Travel options
Each character who travels may select up to two travel options to improve traveling. The  Gold cost depends on the character's primary title rank. Having the Node wandering.png Well-Prepared lifestyle perk reduces the cost by 25%.

Travel option	Effects	Requirements
Hire Cultural Ambassador icon
Hire Cultural Ambassador
You hire someone to serve as a Cultural Ambassador on your journey to disseminate information about your culture to all the baronies you travel through.
 A character with high Diplomacy joins the Entourage
 Gain Cultural acceptance while traveling through foreign lands
 5/10/15/20/25 Gold
Hire Experienced Captains icon
Hire Experienced Captains
You will send word for experienced captains to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling across sea and ocean.
 -45 Danger in Sea and Coastal Sea areas
 A character with the Forder trait joins the Entourage
 5/10/15/20/25 Gold
Hire Mercenary Guards icon
Hire Mercenary Guards
You will hire hardened mercenaries to join your entourage as guards, increasing overall safety and speed.
 +10 Travel Speed
 +20 Travel Safety
 The title owner of a Mercenary Company will join the Entourage
 Base cost 10 Gold
Mercenary.png Unhired Mercenary Company within diplomatic range
Make Haste icon
Make Haste
The world is a dark and dangerous place; best to hasten the journey as much as possible.
 +20 Travel Speed
 -10 Travel Safety
Yes Craven, Impatient or Reckless trait
Circumspect icon
Circumspect
Never let them know your next move.
 +50% Hostile Scheme Resistance
 -50% Enemy Hostile Scheme Success Chance
 -10 Travel Speed
Yes Arbitrary, Fickle or Paranoid trait
Bring Medical Equipment icon
Bring Medical Equipment
You will bring a healthy supply of medical equipment along on your journey to reduce Danger from Plagues.
 -52 Plague Danger	 Personal Physician
Appeasement icon
Appeasement
Sometimes one must don a benevolent facade, concealing tyranny with regal charm, soothing vassals and subjects.
 -0.8 Monthly Tyranny
 -0.4 Monthly Dread
Node wandering.png Local Hero​ perk
Mellow Journey icon
Mellow Journey
In your travels, you will set aside time to warmly explore small towns and villages, connecting with the locals.
 -50% Stress Gain
 -20 Travel Speed
Node wandering.png Local Hero​ perk
Private Army icon
Private Army
A mixed group of lesser knights and local mercenaries, to ensure a quick and safe yet affordable journey.
 +5 Travel Safety
 +5 Travel Speed
Node wandering.png Mercenary Contacts perk
Tutoring Trip icon
Tutoring Trip
Bringing your heir when traveling the realm will teach them about the life of a ruler.
Yes Heir joins the Entourage
 75% Chance child increases a skill by 1
 25% Chance child increases a skill by 2
 +5 Child Opinion
 -5 Travel Speed
Node wandering.png Know Your Land, Know Your People perk
Yes Child heir
Ruler travel options
The following travel options are only available for rulers:

Travel option	Effects	Requirements
Hire Desert Warrior icon
Hire Desert Warrior
You will send word for experts in desert terrain to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling through dry and arid lands.
 -32 Danger in Desert and Steppe terrain
 -22 Danger in Drylands terrain
 A character with the Desert Warrior trait joins the Entourage
 Base cost 2/4/6/8/10 Gold
Hire Forder icon
Hire Forder
You will send word for experts in wetlands terrain to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling through wetlands and floodplains.
 -42 Danger in Wetlands terrain
 -22 Danger in Floodplains terrain
 A character with the Forder trait joins the Entourage
 Base cost 2/4/6/8/10 Gold
Hire Forest Guide icon
Hire Forest Guide
You will send word for experts in forested terrain to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling through forests.
 -37 Danger in Taiga terrain
 -31 Danger in Forest terrain
 A character with the Forest Fighter trait joins the Entourage
 Base cost 2/4/6/8/10 Gold
Hire Jungle Stalker icon
Hire Jungle Stalker
You will send word for experts in jungle terrain to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling across jungle terrain.
 -42 Danger in Jungle terrain
 A character with the Jungle Stalker trait joins the Entourage
 Base cost 2/4/6/8/10 Gold
Hire Mountaineer icon
Hire Mountaineer
You will send word for experts in mountainous terrain to join your entourage, significantly reducing the danger of traveling across high peaks.
 -42 Danger in Mountains and Desert Mountains terrain
 -41 Danger in Hills terrain
 A character with the Rough Terrain Expert trait joins the Entourage
 Base cost 2/4/6/8/10 Gold
Superior Armaments icon
Superior Armaments
Your superior blacksmiths outfit your entourage with the finest equipment and preparations for the journey.
 +10 Travel Safety
 -20% Artifact Decay Reduction
Building blacksmiths.png Crown Smithies duchy building in Domain
Superior Mounts icon
Superior Mounts
Your experienced stable-hands outfit your entourage with the finest mounts in all the realm.
 +20 Travel Speed	Building stables.png Stables or Camelry level 4 or higher building in Domain
Train Knights icon
Train Knights
You bring along your weakest knights to train and learn from the challenges to be faced on the open road.
 +10 Travel Safety
 The 3 Knights with lowest Prowess will join the Entourage
Building military academy.png Military Academies duchy building in Domain
Magnificent Horses icon
Magnificent Horses
You outfit your entire entourage with the most magnificent horses money can buy. From your very own stable no less!
 +10 Travel Speed
 +1 Monthly Prestige
 +10 Travel Companion Opinion
Domicile building stable.png Stables level 2 or higher building in Estate
Adventurer travel options
Roads to Power	Available only with the Roads to Power DLC enabled.
The following travel options are only available to adventurers:

Travel option	Effects	Requirements
Purchase Arid Explorer's Pack icon
Purchase Arid Explorer's Pack
You will purchase veils to keep the sand out of your faces, and sturdy camels to assist in your journey.
 -23 Danger in Desert Mountains terrain
 -18 Danger in Desert and Steppe terrain
 -13 Danger in Drylands terrain
 4 Gold with Well-Prepared perk
 3 Gold without Well-Prepared perk
Purchase Pathfinder Gear icon
Purchase Pathfinder Gear
Traversing mountains and swamps are a challenge - for the unprepared! You will purchase climbing hooks, extra ropes, and all manner of gear necessary to traverse the most treacherous path.
 -23 Danger in Mountains and Wetlands terrain
 -13 Danger in Floodplains and Hills terrain
 4 Gold with Well-Prepared perk
 3 Gold without Well-Prepared perk
Purchase Wilderness Kit icon
Purchase Wilderness Kit
The forest knows no master - but you will tame it with long knives, saws, axes, and a lot of extra wheel grease.
 -23 Danger in Jungle terrain
 -19 Danger in Taiga terrain
 -13 Danger in Forest terrain
 4 Gold with Well-Prepared perk
 3 Gold without Well-Prepared perk
Forward Scouts icon
Forward Scouts
You will send scouts ahead so they can report back on which routes are the least dangerous.
 +20 Travel Safety
 -5 Travel Speed
Domicile building camp perimiter.png Camp Perimeter building in Camp
Scout for Talent icon
Scout for Talent
There are many world-weary figures to encounter along your travels - some of them will surely be in search of employ!
 Can get events to recruit Wanderers
 -5 Travel Speed
NoNode stewardship.png Talent Scout perk
Gather Inspiration icon
Gather Inspiration
There's plenty of inspiration to find on the road - beautiful scenery, impressive landmarks, and remarkable people to meet. It truly stirs the mind's fount!
 Stewardship/6 chance to gain Inspiration for a follower per barony
 +5 Travel Speed
 -5 Travel Safety
Node stewardship.png Inspirational Journeys perk
High-stakes Bartering icon
High-stakes Bartering
There is always a deal to be made. If people know you, they trust you, and are willing to haggle. Unfortunately, it also means that bandits know exactly who to target...
 When passing through a holding get 25% of its Loot
 -20 Travel Safety
Node stewardship.png High-stakes Bartering perk
Search for Secrets icon
Search for Secrets
Rumors are a map to a treasure trove of secrets - but it takes a cunning mind to follow them, X marks the spot!
 Intrigue equal chance to discover a secret of someone in the barony
 +10 Travel Speed
 -10 Travel Safety
Node intrigue.png Digging for Dirt perk
Proselytize to Locals icon
Proselytize to Locals
In the far reaches of the world they have yet to hear of the true faith. It is our solemn duty to remedy this.
 Learning equal chance to convert adults and gain Piety
 +5 Travel Speed
 -5 Travel Safety
Node learning.png Proselytize Zealously perk
Encourage Relationships icon
Encourage Relationships
True long-lasting bonds can not be forced, they emerge from shared hardships. The road may be a cruel mistress, but for each challenge overcome a new relationship is potentially forged.
 Followers improve relations with each other or wanderers
 Will only cause adultery if both followers' faith allows it
 +5 Travel Speed
 -5 Travel Safety
Node stewardship.png That Which Binds Us perk
Yes At least 3 followers
Yes At least 1 adult follower
References
Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: 1.19Character
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
