
Paradox Wikis
CK3 Wiki

Search
Search CK3 Wiki
Log in
Navigation menu
PageDiscussion
ReadEditEdit sourceView history
Crusader Kings III Wiki
Recent changes
Random page
Paradox Wikis
- Main portal
- Wikis discord
- Contact us
- Style guidelines
CK3 links
- Forums
- Game discord
- Mods
- Store
- YouTube
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
 
Warfare
Jump to navigationJump to search
Please help with verifying or updating older sections of this article.
At least some were last verified for version 1.18.

This article is for the PC version of Crusader Kings 3 only.

Warfare is the most straightforward way of expanding a character's Realm, using armies to take titles or subjects by force. All wars require a Casus Belli, which determines the consequences for each side winning, losing, or reaching a white peace. A character cannot declare war while in Debt. They also cannot declare war while their armies are raised unless they have  Nomadic government. If a vassal becomes independent it leaves any war started by its liege.

After a war, the allies of both sides will gain  Prestige regardless of who the victor was, based on their contributions. The winner will gain  Legitimacy based on the title rank difference: 50 if loser had the same rank, 100 if the loser was one rank above, 150 if the loser was two ranks above, and 200 if the loser was three ranks above. The value is doubled if the war was a holy war and tripled if it was a great holy war.

When a war ends, the attacker and the defender will gain a truce for 5 years. If the former attacker declares war again while the truce is active, they will lose  250 prestige and one level of fame and gain  −50 general opinion for 3 years. This will not happen for wars declared via decisions.


Contents
1	Battles
1.1	Combat phases
1.2	The advantage modifier
1.3	Capturing commanders
1.4	Siege
1.4.1	Siege progress
1.4.2	Siege statistics
1.5	Prestige and fame gain on victory
2	War score
2.1	War contribution
3	Holy wars
3.1	Great holy wars
3.1.1	Directed great holy wars
3.1.2	Undirected great holy wars
3.1.3	Unlocking Great Holy Wars
3.1.4	Great Holy War Weights
4	Raiding
5	Capturing characters in a holding
6	Initial wars
7	References
Battles

A battle
Combat phases
Battles start when two hostile armies enter the same Barony. At the start of any battle, the terrain's Combat Width decides how many troops are able to fight each other at the same time. Each battle goes through 4 phases:

Maneuver phase.png Maneuver Phase (2 days): The armies prepare for battle and the Commanders make their initial Advantage rolls.
Early battle phase.png Early Battle Phase (12 days): The armies fight and inflict damage upon each other daily and cannot retreat. If an army is defeated in this phase, all Routed Casualties become Fatal Casualties. This will lead to the defeated army being completely destroyed. Oddly, the first day of fighting would have Routed Casualties increase, but the number of armies shown will not decrease.
Late battle phase.png Late Battle Phase: The armies keep fighting and keep inflicting damage upon each other each day until either all soldiers on one side run out of Toughness or one side decides to retreat. If an army retreats, all remaining soldiers become Routed Casualties.
Aftermath phase.png Aftermath Phase (3 days): The winning army gives chase to the defeated army and attempts to turn Routed Casualties into Fatal Casualties. When the phase ends, the defeated army moves into an adjacent Barony with all Routed Casualties and cannot be given orders until it finished traveling a couple of Baronies away, but will travel slightly faster than controlled armies. If all Routed Casualties are turned into Fatal Casualties, the army of the defeated side will instead be completely annihilated.
The advantage modifier
When combat starts, the Advantage, a modifier that lasts the entire battle and increases the damage of all troops on either side, is calculated for both sides. Advantage can come from traits, terrain, buildings or the  Martial skill of the Commander. Each Commander will also make a d10 roll every 3 days in an attempt to increase their Advantage, and the roll can be affected by various modifiers and traits. Each point of Advantage increases an army's  Damage depending on game rules. Starting Advantage can be affected by the following:

+30 if army is defending across a strait
+20 if army is defending across a large river
+10 if army is defending across a river
+10 if Pagan combat advantage
+5 if liege is leading the army
+5 if Never Back Down martial lifestyle perk
+5 if Chivalry focus martial lifestyle focus
-10 if realm is in debt
-10 if army is gathering
-10 if army is low on supplies
-25 if army is out of supplies
-30 if army is attacking across sea
Capturing commanders
A defeated commander may be captured upon defeat in battle. The base chance that the enemy commander is caught is 10%, represented by two chance "scores" in the game script, 90 for escape and 10 for capture. These scores are affected by various factors, and should not be treated as percentages, as their total is not always 100.

Condition/Factor	Effect
Commander has Stalwart Leader Perk (player)	+100 to escape score
Commander has Stalwart Leader Perk (ai)	+30 to escape score
 Prowess	Capture score is multiplied by (30 - prowess score) ÷ 30, with a minimum of 0.1.
E.g. a character with 10 prowess would end up with 66% of the total capture score

Has the trait  Craven	Capture score is halved
Army is stackwiped	Escape score is divided by 5
Has the trait  Brave	Capture score is doubled
Has the trait  One-Legged or  Maimed	Capture score is tripled
Siege

A siege
A siege is the main way of gaining War Score and happens automatically when a non-raiding army stops moving in a barony that has a  Fort Level. Each such holding has a  Garrison, and a siege will only start if the number of Soldiers in the army exceeds it. If the besieging army is ordered to move and there is not another army in the same barony that exceeds the defender's  Garrison the siege will end and all siege progress will be lost.

If the siege progresses completely then the barony is occupied. When a barony is occupied it will appear with stripes of its owner and occupier on the map, will produce no  Taxes,  Levies,  Control or  Development, and neither the owner nor the occupier will be able to construct or upgrade holdings and buildings. Its  Garrison is reset to 25 but will replenish based on the Garrison Reinforcement Rate. County control will also decrease by 40, increased to 80 if the besieger's dynasty has the final DLC Northern Lords.png Pillage legacy and completely negated if the defender has the  Enduring Hardships lifestyle perk.

Baronies that do not have a  Fort Level cannot be sieged but will be automatically occupied if every barony in the same county that has a  Fort Level is occupied. When a barony is occupied the War Score will shift towards the occupier depending on how big their realm is relative to the captured barony, with additional score if said barony fulfills objectives.

The besieger suffers 1% Attrition per month of their total army while they are besieging. Being attacked while besieging a Fortified Holding will make the besieger the attacker of the battle, conferring any terrain defensive bonus to the other army instead. There is also an additional  Advantage penalty for fighting in the same Barony as a Fortified Holding.

All available Loot will be given to the besieger, and grants the holding a "Recently Looted" modifier.

Siege progress
During a siege, a Siege Progress bar will slowly increase both on the world map and when the siege is selected. When it fills completely, the barony will be occupied. The amount of Siege Progress needed is 100+75 per  Fort Level. It is then reduced by a percentage equal to how many soldiers are currently in the  Garrison out of the potential maximum - for example if only half of the maximum  Garrison is present the barony will require only half of the usual Siege Progress to the occupied.

Siege Progress is mostly gained by Daily Siege Progress, which accumulates each day the siege is on-going. Daily Siege Progress is 1+0.05 for each 200 besieging Soldiers that exceeds the  Garrison. Siege weapons men-at-arms contribute additional Daily Siege Progress. Certain traits and other modifiers can add Daily Siege Progress contribution to men-at-arms that do not ordinarily provide it, or increase the contribution of those that do. Depending on  Fort Level and siege weapon men-at-arms in the besieging army, there might be penalties to Daily Siege Progress, but Daily Siege Progress cannot be reduced below 0.5 per day.

Siege Weapons
Fort Level
None	Unit onager.pngUnit ballista.pngUnit torch bearers.png	Unit mangonel.pngUnit cloud ladder.png	Unit trebuchet.pngUnit siege tower.png	Unit bombard.pngUnit cannon.png
1-3	100%	100%	100%	100%	100%
4-5	70%	100%	100%	100%	100%
6-10	50%	70%	100%	100%	100%
11-15	35%	50%	70%	100%	100%
16-30	25%	35%	50%	70%	100%
31+	17%	25%	35%	50%	70%
Siege statistics
In addition, during a Siege, the defending fort has three statistics: Supplies, Sickness, and Walls, each of which can be in one of three incremental stages. Stage 1 is the starting position.

Statistic	Stage 1 effects	Stage 2 effects	Stage 3 effects
Walls	Breach state 1.png None	Breach state 2.png One-time reduction of Morale by 5% of original total	Breach state 3.png One time reduction of Morale by 15% of original total
Sickness	Disease state 1.png None	Disease state 2.png +10% Daily Siege Progress	Disease state 3.png +20% Daily Siege Progress
Supplies	Starvation state 1.png None	Starvation state 2.png -10% Time Between Siege Events
 Can assault the Fort with 2.5% daily casualties	Starvation state 3.png -30% Time Between Siege Events
 Can assault the Fort with 1% daily casualties
A Siege Event can happen every 20 days (shortened to 14 days with  Military Engineer commander trait and also by 10%/30% depending on how much the walls are breached)), which can increase the stage.

Siege Event	Weight	Effect
Siege actions stalemate.png Stalemate	20	No effect
Siege actions desertion.png Desertion	20	+5.0 Siege Progress
Siege actions starvation.png Starvation	15	Changes Supplies by one stage
Siege actions disease outbreak.png Disease Outbreak	15	Changes Sickness by one stage
Siege actions breach.png Breach	(30 * siege weapon tier) - (fort level x 2)	Changes Walls by one stage
Once the walls have been breached, the siege icon on the map will change to show a ladder and the holding can be assaulted. Assaulting will add a large amount of daily Siege Progress at the cost of casualties. For every 100 Soldiers besieging (rounded up), Daily Siege Progress increases by 0.2. Hovering over the button to assault the holding will display how it will affect siege progress and casualties.


Strategy

As can be seen, having appropriate Siege Men-at-Arms is vital to conducting sieges effectively. Simply adding more Soldiers to a siege has effectively negligible increase on the time to success. Even worse, if there are no Siege Men-at-Arms at all, breaching the Walls becomes impossible, and an army is unable to Assault the Fortified Holding, leaving it stuck in the slow and damaging Siege. This is particularly notable for Tribal characters who can lack access to any Siege Men-at-Arms at all, and therefore have very good reason to focus on the Onager innovation. The Sappers Perk in the Military Strategist Lifestyle helpfully adds +0.1 Daily Siege Progress to a number of Men-at-Arms units which otherwise lack it, and is therefore incredibly useful to Tribal characters, although notably it does not add a Siege Tier to these units. Once a Siege Men-at-Arms unit has been unlocked, the Engineered Destruction Perk, in the same Lifestyle, is usually more powerful, increasing Daily Siege Progress on Siege Men-at-Arms units by 40%. Even a simple Size 1 Onager unit will go from +1.0 to +1.4 with this, an increase of +0.4, the same that Sappers will give to a Size 4 Armoured Footman unit. Such is the strength of Engineered Destruction, and the fact it is applied Realm-wide rather than per Commander, that it can be well worth diverting into the Strategist Lifestyle just for this perk.

The maths of the formula means that additional Siege Men-at-Arms have diminishing returns. With a Defender Morale of 400, increasing Daily Siege Progress from 1.0 to 2.0 decreases the length of the Siege (ignoring Siege Events) from 400 days to 200 days, a 200 day drop, but increasing Daily Siege Progress from 2.0 to 3.0 only decreases the length of the Siege from 200 days to 134 days, a 66 day drop. In addition, as only a single Men-at-Arms unit is needed to unlock a particular Siege Tier, players may wish to consider spreading Siege Men-at-Arms units across multiple sieges rather than concentrating them on a single siege.

Prestige and fame gain on victory
Victory of a battle might grants prestige, fame, piety, or devotion. You gain fame if you are the war leader and enemy is either the war leader or ally in the war. Otherwise you get prestige and devotion, this includes cases such as when you fight as an ally, or when you fight against your enemies' vassal.

War score

Warscore
War score is a measure of which side is winning a war. It ranges from -100 to +100, each point added to one side being subtracted at the same time from the other side, e.g. if one side has 25 War score, the other side will have -25 War score. War score is gained by winning Battles, occupying Holdings, taking important prisoners and especially having control of the Casus Belli's Objective, or the "War Target". Even though the game doesn't define the term "War Target", it appears to correspond to whether either side has possession of at least one county in the de Jure title being fought over. If either side controls the entirety of the de jure title being fought over, they accumulate war score every month. If the other side takes control of at least one of these counties, the war score gained from control resets to 0 but will return to its previous level if the county/ies are recaptured. If neither side controls all de jure disputed land, there is no gain from control. For example, a war for the Duchy of Lancaster in England means that there are 4 counties that are at claim. If the attacker seizes all 4, they accumulate 1% per month of war score. After a certain amount of time, the defenders will gain score if the attackers have failed to capture any of these counties. Note that this does not apply in wars where the claim is on the highest title in that realm. For example, a claim on England will not accumulate a control score as long as the attacker takes even a single county; if they were to take them all, they would automatically win by full occupation unless the Empire of Britannia has been created and is the liege of the holder of the title of Kingdom of England.

Objective	Bonus war score
Capturing enemy ruler	+100
Capturing enemy heir	+50 (primary heir)
+25 (secondary heir)
+10 (tertiary heir)
Occupying enemy capital	+10
The benefits given by winning battles is based on the size of the losing army relative to its total soldier count. The benefits given by occupying holdings correspond to a percentage of the total holdings the defender has, both inside and outside the war target. Against rulers battles can give up to 50% war score. Against adventurers there is no limit and if the adventurer runs out of men-at-arms the war score will shift all the way in favor of the ruler.

At +30 War score, the winning side can call for White Peace. At +100 War score, the winning side can enforce their demands on the losing side. Alternatively, at -100 War score, the losing side must surrender to the winning side. This can be modified by Peace Acceptance, particularly with the Peacemaker Lifestyle Perk.

Players can always Surrender to the opposing side, ending the war and enforcing the opposing side's demands on themselves. The AI will also eventually surrender to the player when the player has 100 war score, preventing the player from taking additional captives or inflicting additional damage to their realm.

War contribution
Wars where either the attacker or the defender has allies keep track of the percentage of War score that was provided by each ally's armies. When the war ends, a certain amount of  Gold,  Prestige or  Piety is shared among all allies based on their War Contribution.

If a war lasts at least 2 years and one of the allies has 0% War Contribution, it will lose -20  Opinion with the war leader and have to pay  Gold or  Prestige or promise to earn War Contribution within a year. Breaking the promise will result in losing a Level of Fame as well as -50  Opinion with the war leader.

Holy wars
Holy Wars are wars started with one of the Holy War casus belli. Unlike other wars, Rulers of the same Faith as the defending Ruler can join the war without requiring an Alliance. A Ruler targeted by a Holy War gains a character interaction to convert to the attacker's Faith in order to end the war in White Peace at the cost of 100  Piety and 3 Levels of Devotion.

Great holy wars
Great Holy Wars can only be declared by a Head of Faith whose faith has the Warmonger, Armed Pilgrimages, Struggle and Submission tenets or Special Doctrines such as Rightful Rulers of the World and their Head of Faith is not imprisoned. They can only target Kingdoms ruled by a character of a different Faith. If victorious, all Titles within the targeted Kingdom are seized and divided between the attackers based on their War Contribution. Great Holy Wars can be Directed or Undirected. Great Holy Wars do not cause Vassal  Opinion loss no matter how long they last. A faith must have at least 75% fervor to launch a Great Holy War.

Characters of the attacking Faith who pledge military support can also choose a Beneficiary, an unlanded and non-heir character of their Dynasty who will receive titles in the targeted Kingdom proportional to their War Contribution.

During Great Holy Wars, there is no option for White Peace and capturing and imprisoning the opposing war leader or its Heir will not grant War score. If the attacking Faith wins, its Fervor will decrease by -30 while the defending Faith's Fervor will increase by +25%. If the defending Faith wins, the attacking Faith will lose -25 Fervor.

Rulers who contribute to a Great Holy War and knights in the armies that fight such a war will gain the Trait crusader.png Crusader trait if Christian, Trait mujahid.png Mujahid trait if Muslim or Trait faith warrior.png Warrior of the Faith trait if their Religion is any other. In addition, if the character had the  Excommunicated trait, it is removed.

AI rulers are less afraid of armies that outnumber theirs during Great Holy Wars.

Directed great holy wars
Directed Great Holy Wars can be declared by Temporal Heads of Faith. If victorious, the Kingdom is granted to the Head of Faith. Rulers of the same Faith can join forces with the Head of Faith, and based on their War Contribution, may gain Piety or Titles in the conquered Kingdom if victorious.

Undirected great holy wars
Undirected Great Holy Wars can be declared by Spiritual Heads of Faith. When declared, a preparation phase starts, during which Rulers of the attacking and defending Faiths can either donate gold or pledge military support to their side.

Each Undirected Great Holy War will have a War Chest, to which characters of the attacking Faith can donate  Gold in order to receive  Piety equal to half of the amount donated. Donating significant amounts will also grant bonus  Opinion with the Head of Faith. When the preparation phase ends, 20% of the War Chest's value will be divided among all rulers who pledged military support for the attacking Faith. The rest will be divided among all rulers who pledged military support if their Faith wins.

During the preparation phase, characters belonging to the Faith of the attacker or the defender can pledge military support. Characters who pledge military support may gain a share of the War Chest's value and will end all wars against characters who also pledged military support. Upon pledging, characters of the attacking Faith will gain Piety and the War Chest will gain Prestige and Piety depending on their Primary Title rank:

Rank	Piety	War Chest Prestige	War Chest Piety
 Baron	30	250	75
 Count	60	500	150
 Duke	90	1000	300
 King	120	1500	600
 Emperor	150	3000	1200
A character can withdraw their pledge for military support after making it, but doing so will cause them to lose one Level of Devotion.

In addition, during the preparation phase, characters who pledged military support can spend Piety to change the targeted Kingdom. This must be done at least 101 days before the start of the Holy War.

If, during the preparation phase, the head of faith calling for the great holy war dies for any reason, the great holy war will not be called off.

Once the Preparation Phase ends, the war starts if the projected attacker strength is less than 33% of the projected defender strength. If the attackers are victorious, the Kingdom is granted to the attacker that had the highest War Contribution. During both war and the preparation Phase, attackers may donate Gold to the War Chest.

Unlocking Great Holy Wars
To unlock Great Holy Wars a Faith must have the right Doctrines, its Head of Faith must exist and not be imprisoned, there must be at least 35 counties in the world following the Faith, fervor has to be above 65% and at least ten years must have passed since another Faith unlocked Great Holy Wars. If those conditions are met, a Faith will unlock Great Holy Wars after year 1100 but they can be unlocked at any point earlier if two Holy Sites are in a realm whose top liege is not of the same religion. Crusades and Jihads can be unlocked earlier if certain conditions are met.

Faith	Minimum year	Condition
Catholic	1095	Top liege of Jerusalem is not Christian
Catholic	1000	Byzantine emperor or top liege of any of these counties is not Christian: Ankyra, Athens, Constantinople, Corinth
Catholic	800	The top liege of any of these counties is not Christian: Cologne, Halberstadt, Paris, Venaissin, Toulouse
Catholic	-	Top liege of Rome is not Christian
Islam	-	After Christianity has unlocked, and any holy site is in a realm whose top liege is not Muslim OR the top liege of Jerusalem or Mecca is not Muslim
any faith	-	After both Christianity and Islam have unlocked, and any holy site is in a realm whose top liege is of Hostile or Evil faith.
any faith	800	Any two holy sites are in a realm whose top liege is of a different religion.
Great Holy War Weights
Main article: Great holy war weights
Great Holy Wars have a multiplier for AI targeting of 100 for a key religious holding (Jerusalem for Catholics and Jews, Mecca and Medina for Muslims), 75 for the kingdom where someone who made a Human Sacrifice of the Head of Faith came from, 50 for kingdoms with a holy site, 40 for kingdoms in heartland regions, 30 for frontier regions, 20 for fringe regions, and 10 for stretch regions. Note this means all other kingdoms would have a multiplier of 1. If the Head of Faith is landed, this is divided by the distance from the Head of Faith. If not, it is divided by the distance from the primary religious site (e.g. Rome). There is also a multiplier of 20 if someone of the same faith holds the kingdom title, but does not possess enough of the kingdom. Great Holy War Weights can be found in game\common\script_values\02_religion_values.txt.

Raiding

A raid
Raiding is the process of attacking the Holding of another character without requiring to be at war with them in order to gain Loot. In order to raid an army must be raised as raiders, which requires at least one of the following:

Unreformed faith
Tribal government
Practiced Pirates tradition
Ghazi Status tax decree
Legacy of Piracy dynasty modifier
Roads to Power Frontier administration
Khans of the Steppe Nomadic government
DLC All Under Heaven.png Wanua government
DLC All Under Heaven.png Meritocratic Khanate government
Raiders will carry loot based on the army size and they cannot embark unless their culture has unlocked the Longships or West African Canoes innovation or has the Practiced Pirates tradition. While a raiders army is selected, each holding near borders will display how much Loot can be obtained. While raiding, the army cannot move, allowing the attacked character to raise an army against them if possible. If a raider army is defeated before returning inside its own borders all Loot will be recovered. Maintenance cost for armies raised as raiders is reduced by 50%. Each army raised as raiders will have a Raid Intent, which determines what will the Loot be converted into. Most raid intents have additional bonuses but those are reduced to half if the duchy has a Building march.png Marches duchy building and completely eliminated if the building is upgraded.

Intent	 Loot conversion	 Loot conversion	 Loot conversion	 Raid speed	 Raiders speed	Effects	Requirements
Pillage raid intent.png Pillage	 100% Gold	
 100% Gold
 100% Prestige
 50% Gold
 100% Herd
100%	100%	 -1.5 Prestige per Loot if not Tribal, Wanua or Nomadic	
Adventure raid intent.png Adventure	
 100% Gold
 100% Prestige
 100% Gold
 100% Prestige
 50% Gold
 100% Herd
80%	50%	
 No Hostile County Attrition
 +300% Army Loot Capacity
 Longships innovation
Capture raid intent.png Capture	No Unavailable	 50% Gold	
 25% Gold
 50% Herd
70%	75%	
 +15% Chance to imprison characters
Raze raid intent.png Terrorize	No Unavailable	
 100% Prestige
 10% Dread
 100% Prestige
 10% Dread
40%	100%	
 +30% Chance to be offered to sack the holding
 25% Chance the county loses 5 Fort Level and 75% Garrison for 5 years
 25% Chance the county loses 1 Development
 25% Chance the holding loses 1 building
Scorched Earth or No Quarter legacy
Plunder raid intent.png Plunder	No Unavailable	No Unavailable	
 100% Gold
 150% Herd
40%	50%	 2% Chance to gain an innovation	Yes Culture head
Once a Holding has been Raided it cannot be Raided again by the same enemy for 5 years, during which time the Holding will have -50% Taxes, +50% Building Construction Time and -10% Development Growth. If the raided Barony is a Ruler's Realm Capital, raiding may capture or kill courtiers or family members. Holdings that have been Raided will have a torch icon above them when a raider army is selected. Realms at truce with cannot be raided.

If a Commander has raided at least 20 times, each raid has a chance to grant them the  Raider trait equal to the amount of times they raided.

If a ruler is the army's Commander after the Holding is raided, there is a 30% chance they will gain the option to sack its County. The chance is increased to 50% if they have the  Raider trait. Sacking the County presents at least one, sometimes two options. A player can always sack for additional treasure, granting more  Gold and  Prestige while the County will gain -40  Development Progress. When sacking a feudal holding, if the raider's capital has under 15  Development, they are also presented with a second option to capture slaves for their capital. Choosing this option will increase  Development progress in the raider’s capital by +40, decrease the sacked county’s development by -1, and decrease sacked county’s development progress by -80. Choosing either option will also give the County the Recently Sacked modifier for 20 years, which prevents it from being sacked again and gives it +20 Popular Opinion. Sacking a County will grant +10  Stress if the character has the  Compassionate or  Forgiving traits.

Raided rulers gain a decaying -15  Opinion (+1.47/year) towards the owners of the raiding armies.

DLC Northern Lords.png	Available only with the Northern Lords DLC enabled.
If the Northern Lords DLC is installed rulers who meet certain requirements have a 20% chance to be offered to trade instead of raiding. The chance is increased to 40% if the character belongs to the North Germanic culture group or has the second Adventure legacy track.png Adventure dynasty legacy. If the offer is accepted the army will gain 10 Loot and +20  Opinion with the realm owner but will not be able to raid them for 5 years. In addition the previously raided County will get a +20 Popular Opinion modifier for 5 years. To be offered to trade, the following requirements must be met:

At peace
Leading the raiding army as a Commander
Raiding a Holding castle.png Castle holding
Either the  Longships innovation or the second Adventure legacy track.png Adventure dynasty legacy
DLC All Under Heaven.png	Available only with the All Under Heaven DLC enabled.
Raiding armies can fight barterer armies to take their loot.

Capturing characters in a holding
Characters present in a holding which has just been occupied or raided have a chance to be imprisoned by the besieging force. The following conditions exclude characters from being capturable:

The besiegers have defeated the defender's army, but the defender's army has not yet retreated to a different province
The character is imprisoned in the barony
For eligible characters, the base chance to be captured is 35%. Each point of  Intrigue reduces the chance by 1%, up to a maximum reduction of 20%, and each point of  Prowess reduces the chance by 0.5%, up to a maximum reduction of 15%. The third DLC Northern Lords.png Pillage legacy effect adds 20% to this chance.

If the occupying force is a peasant army, or the target is undesirable, a captured character will instead be killed. A target is desirable if any of the following is true:

They are landed
They have at least one parent
Their spouse is landed
Any close family member is landed
They have a high skill rating in diplomacy, martial, stewardship, intrigue or learning
They have a physician lifestyle trait
They have a mystic lifestyle trait
Initial wars
The following wars are present at the start of each game.  Mogyër Confederation will also start at war with  Bulgaria using the Migrate to Pannonia casus belli if the Hungarian Migration game rule has been set to Immediate.

867
Attacker	Defender	Casus belli
 Aghlabid	 Byzantine Empire	Duchy conquest cb.png Conquer Duchy
 Hadithan-Ana	 Abbasid Empire	Invasion cb.png Invade Kingdom
 Asturias	 al-Andalus	Default cb.png Claim
 Saffarid	 Tahirid	Invasion cb.png Invade Kingdom
 Tulaytulah
 Burtughal	 al-Andalus	Independence faction war cb.png Independence
 Italy	 Apulia	Duchy conquest cb.png Conquer Duchy
 Jórvík
 Uppland	 Northumbria
 Mercia
 Wessex	Scandinavian adventure concquest cb.png Varangian Adventure
 The Suðreyjar	 East Anglia
 Mercia
 Wessex	Scandinavian adventure concquest cb.png Varangian Adventure
 The Suðreyjar	 Northumbria	Scandinavian adventure concquest cb.png Varangian Adventure
1066
Attacker	Defender	Casus belli
 Seljuk Empire	 Byzantine Empire	Default cb.png Claim
 Norway	 England	Invasion cb.png Invade Kingdom
 Normandy	 England	Invasion cb.png Invade Kingdom
 Ruhunu	 Chola Kingdom	Default cb.png Claim
1178
Attacker	Defender	Casus belli
 Jamtaland	 Norway	Default cb.png Claim
References


Mechanics
Characters	Characters • Attributes • Traits • Resources • Modifiers • Lifestyle • Family • Dynasty • Schemes • Hooks • Activities • Artifacts • Interactions • Travel • Adventurers • Prisoners
Realm & Governance	Council • Court • Power sharing • Subjects • Succession • Government • Laws • Decisions • Titles • Barony • County • Buildings • Royal court • Domiciles • Great projects
Warfare	Warfare • Casus belli • Alliance • Army • Hired forces • Knights • Duel • Situations
Culture & Faith	Culture • Traditions • Innovations • Form of Address • Faith • Doctrines • Tenets • Holy sites
Meta	Modding • Patches • Downloadable content • Developer diaries • Achievements • Jargon • Bookmarks • Interesting characters • Ruler Designer • Game rules
Categories: Potentially outdated1.18War
About CK3 WikiMobile view
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0Powered by MediaWiki

Games
Discover
Our Brands
Browse
Play on Paradox technology
Community
Paradox Forums
Paradox Wikis
Support
About
News
About us
Careers
Join our playtests
Media contact
Social Media
Legal Information
EU Online Dispute Resolution
Report Illegal Content
